
Chapter 651
SHIPS’ STORES AND COMMISSARY STORES
 Sales: members of the naval service and Coast Guard; widows and widowers; civilian employees and other persons
(a)
 Such stores as the Secretary of the Navy designates may be procured and sold to members of the naval service, members of the Coast Guard, and widows and widowers of such members.


(b)
 The Secretary may, by regulation, provide for the procurement and sale of stores designated by him to such civilian officers and employees of the United States, and such other persons, as he considers proper—
(1)
 at military installations outside the United States; and




(2)
 at military installations inside the United States where he determines that it is impracticable for those civilian officers, employees, and persons to obtain those stores from private agencies without impairing the efficient operation of naval activities.





However, sales to civilian officers and employees inside the United States may be made only to those residing within military installations.


 Sales: members of Army and Air Force; prices
The Navy and the Marine Corps shall sell subsistence supplies to any member of the Army or the Air Force at prices charged members of the naval service.
 Sales: veterans under treatment
A person who has been separated honorably or under honorable conditions from the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, or the Marine Corps and who is receiving care and medical treatment from the Public Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs may buy subsistence supplies and other supplies, except articles of uniform, from the Navy and the Marine Corps at prices charged members of the naval service.
 Ships’ stores: sale of goods and services
(a)
 
In General
.—
Under such regulations and at such prices as the Secretary of the Navy may prescribe, the Secretary may provide for the sale of goods and services from ships’ stores to members of the naval service and to such other persons as provided by law.


(b)
 
Incidental Services
.—
The Secretary of the Navy may provide financial services, space, utilities, and labor to ships’ stores on a nonreimbursable basis.


(c)
 
Items Sold
.—
Merchandise sold by ship stores afloat may include items in the following categories:
(1)
 Health, beauty, and barber items.




(2)
 Prerecorded music and videos.




(3)
 Photographic batteries and related supplies.




(4)
 Appliances and accessories.




(5)
 Uniform items, emblematic and athletic clothing, and equipment.




(6)
 Luggage and leather goods.




(7)
 Stationery, magazines, books, and supplies.




(8)
 Sundry, games, and souvenirs.




(9)
 Beverages and related food and snacks.




(10)
 Laundry, tailor, and cleaning supplies.




(11)
 Tobacco products.




 Acceptance of Government checks outside the United States
 Subsistence and other supplies: members of armed forces; veterans; executive or military departments and employees; prices
(a)
(1)
 The Secretary of the Navy shall procure and sell, for cash or credit—
(A)
 articles designated by the Secretary to members of the Navy and Marine Corps; and




(B)
 items of individual clothing and equipment to members of the Navy and Marine Corps, under such restrictions as the Secretary may prescribe.






(2)
 An account of sales on credit shall be kept and the amount due reported to the Secretary. Except for articles and items acquired through the use of working capital funds under 
section 2208 of this title
, sales of articles shall be at cost, and sales of individual clothing and equipment shall be at average current prices, including overhead, as determined by the Secretary.




(b)
 The Secretary shall sell subsistence supplies to members of other armed forces at the prices at which like property is sold to members of the Navy and Marine Corps.


(c)
 The Secretary may sell serviceable supplies, other than subsistence supplies, to members of other armed forces for the buyers’ use in the service. The prices at which the supplies are sold shall be the same prices at which like property is sold to members of the Navy and Marine Corps.


(d)
 A person who has been discharged honorably or under honorable conditions from the Army, Navy, Air Force or Marine Corps and who is receiving care and medical treatment from the Public Health Service or the Department of Veterans Affairs may buy subsistence supplies and other supplies, except articles of uniform, at the prices at which like property is sold to members of the Navy and Marine Corps.


(e)
 Under such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, exterior articles of uniform may be sold to a person who has been discharged honorably or under honorable conditions from the Navy or Marine Corps, at the prices at which like articles are sold to members of the Navy or Marine Corps. This subsection does not modify section 772 or 773 of this title.


(f)
 Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, payment for subsistence supplies shall be made in cash or by commercial credit.


(g)
(1)
 The Secretary may provide for the procurement and sale of stores designated by the Secretary to such civilian officers and employees of the United States, and such other persons, as the Secretary considers proper—
(A)
 at military installations outside the United States; and




(B)
 subject to paragraph (2), at military installations inside the United States where the Secretary determines that it is impracticable for those civilian officers, employees, and persons to obtain such stores from commercial enterprises without impairing the efficient operation of military activities.






(2)
 Sales to civilian officers and employees inside the United States may be made under paragraph (1) only to civilian officers and employees residing within military installations.




(h)
 Appropriations for subsistence of the Navy or Marine Corps may be applied to the purchase of subsistence supplies for sale to members of the Navy and Marine Corps on active duty for the use of such members and their families.


