
Chapter 647
DISPOSAL OF OBSOLETE OR SURPLUS MATERIAL
 Obsolete and other material: gift or sale to Boy Scouts of America, Naval Sea Cadet Corps and Young Marines of the Marine Corps League
 Uniform clothing: sale to Naval Sea Cadet Corps
Subject to regulations under 
 Authority to make grants for purposes of Naval Sea Cadet Corps
Subject to the availability of funds for this purpose, the Secretary of the Navy may make grants to support the purposes of Naval Sea Cadet Corps, a federally chartered corporation under chapter 1541 of title 36.
 Excess clothing: sale for distribution to needy
(a)
 Subject to regulations under 
section 121 of title 40
, the Secretary of the Navy, under regulations prescribed by him, may sell, at nominal prices, to recognized charitable organizations, to States and subdivisions thereof, and to municipalities nonregulation and excess clothing that may be available for distribution to the needy. The clothing may be sold only if the purchaser agrees not to resell it but to give it to the needy.


(b)
 A fair proportionate allotment of clothing to be sold under this section shall be set aside for distribution in each State and the District of Columbia. An allotment so set aside may not be sold for other distribution until at least 30 days after the allotment was made.


 Useless ordnance material: disposition of proceeds on sale
The net proceeds of sales of useless ordnance material by the Department of the Navy shall be covered into the Treasury.
 Devices and trophies: transfer to other agencies
(a)
 The Secretary of the Navy may, without reimbursement, transfer to the Secretary of the Treasury devices and trophies for the promotion of the sale of war bonds or victory bonds. The Secretary of the Treasury may sell or donate the devices and trophies for the promotion of the sale of such bonds.


(b)
 The Secretary of the Navy may, without reimbursement, transfer to any agency of the United States devices and trophies for scientific, experimental, monumental, or display purposes.


 Obsolete material and articles of historical interest: loan or gift
(a)
 
Authority To Make Loans and Gifts
.—
The Secretary of the Navy may lend or give, without expense to the United States, items described in subsection (b) that are not needed by the Department of the Navy to any of the following:
(1)
 A State, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States, or political subdivision or municipal corporation thereof.




(2)
 The District of Columbia.




(3)
 A library.




(4)
 A historical society.




(5)
 An educational institution whose graduates or students fought in a foreign war.




(6)
 A servicemen’s monument association.




(7)
 A State museum.




(8)
 A museum or memorial operated and maintained for educational purposes only, whose charter denies it the right to operate for profit.




(9)
 A post of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States.




(10)
 A post of the American Legion.




(11)
 Any other recognized war veterans’ association.




(12)
 A post of the Sons of Veterans Reserve.




(b)
 
Items Eligible for Disposal
.—
This section applies to the following types of property held by the Department of the Navy:
(1)
 Captured, condemned, or obsolete ordnance material.




(2)
 Captured, condemned, or obsolete combat or shipboard material.




(c)
 
Regulations
.—
A loan or gift made under this section shall be subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary and to regulations under 
section 121 of title 40
.


(d)
 
Maintenance of the Records of the Government
.—
Records of the Government as defined in 
section 3301 of title 44
 may not be disposed of under this section.


(e)
 
Alternative Authorities To Make Gifts or Loans
.—
If any disposition is authorized by this section and 
section 2572 of this title
, the Secretary may make the gift or loan under either section.


(f)
 
Authority To Transfer a Portion of a Vessel
.—
The Secretary may lend, give, or otherwise transfer any portion of the hull or superstructure of a vessel stricken from the Naval Vessel Register and designated for scrapping to a qualified organization specified in subsection (a). The terms and conditions of an agreement for the transfer of a portion of a vessel under this section shall include a requirement that the transferee will maintain the material conveyed in a condition that will not diminish the historical value of the material or bring discredit upon the Navy.


 Loan or gift of articles to ships’ sponsors and donors
 Equipment for instruction in seamanship: loan to military schools
(a)
 Upon the application of the governor of any State having a seacoast or bordering on any of the Great Lakes, the President may direct the Secretary of the Navy to lend to one well-established military school in that State that desires to instruct its cadets in elementary seamanship one fully equipped cutter for every 25 cadets attending the school, and such other equipment adequate for instruction in elementary seamanship as may be spared.


(b)
 To be eligible for a loan under this section a school must—
(1)
 have adequate facilities for cutter drill;




(2)
 have at least 75 cadets—
(A)
 at least 15 years of age;




(B)
 in uniform;




(C)
 receiving military instruction; and




(D)
 quartered in barracks under military regulations; and






(3)
 have the capacity to quarter and educate 150 cadets at one time.




(c)
 Whenever a loan is made under this section, the Secretary shall require a bond in double the value of the property for its care and return when required.


