
Chapter 607
RETIREMENT OF CIVILIAN MEMBERS OF THE TEACHING STAFFS OF THE UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY AND UNITED STATES NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL
 Civilian member: definition; exceptions
(a)
 In this chapter, the term “civilian member” means a civilian member of the teaching staff of the United States Naval Academy or the United States Naval Postgraduate School. It includes the Provost and Academic Dean of the Postgraduate School, senior professors, professors, associate professors, assistant professors, chief instructors, assistant chief instructors, and instructors.


(b)
 This chapter does not apply to any civilian member who was employed at the Naval Academy or the Postgraduate School on 
January 16, 1936
, and who did not elect to participate in the benefits provided by the 
Act of January 16, 1936, ch. 3
 (
49 Stat. 1092
).


(c)
 This chapter does not apply to any person who was a civilian member after 
September 30, 1956
.


 Deferred annuity policy required
Each civilian member, as a part of his contract of employment, shall carry, during his employment, a deferred annuity policy, having no cash surrender or loan provision, in a joint-stock life insurance corporation that is incorporated under the laws of a State and has a charter restriction that its business must be conducted without profit to its stockholders.
 Annuity premium to be paid by monthly installments; government reimbursement
Each civilian member shall make a monthly allotment in an amount equal to 10 percent of his monthly basic salary toward the purchase of his deferred annuity policy. For each month the allotment is in force, the pay account of the civilian member shall be credited monthly from appropriations made for this purpose with an additional amount equal to 5 percent of his monthly basic salary.
 Age of retirement
A civilian member may be retired at any time after his sixty-fifth birthday, and shall be retired by June 30 following that birthday. However, in any special case the Secretary of the Navy may defer the retirement of a member until a date not later than the member’s seventieth birthday.
 Computation of life annuity
Each civilian member who retires under 
“(a)
 A retired civilian member of the teaching staff of the United States Naval Academy or the United States Naval Postgraduate School who retired before 
April 1, 1948
, is entitled to be paid, out of applicable current appropriations, $300 a year in addition to the annuity to which he is entitled under 
section 7085 of title 10
 [this section].


“(b)
 A retired civilian member whose annuity, when increased by $300 under subsection (a), is less than $1,860 is entitled to be paid an additional $300 a year out of applicable current appropriations.


“(c)
 Additions to the annuities of retired civilian members under subsection (b) do not increase the annuities payable to the survivors of those members.”


 Physical disability retirement
(a)
 Each civilian member who has served not less than five years, and who, before reaching the age of 65, becomes totally disabled for useful and efficient service in his position, by reason of disease or injury not due to his own vicious habits, intemperance, or willful misconduct shall, upon his application or upon the request of the Secretary of the Navy, be retired with a life annuity computed under 
section 7085 of this title
.


(b)
 The amount that the Secretary shall pay annually under this section is the difference between the total amount to which the retired member is entitled under subsection (a) and the immediate life annuity to which he is entitled at the time of his disability retirement under the annuity policy required by 
section 7082 of this title
.


(c)
 Each civilian member retired under this section, unless the disability for which he was retired is permanent in character, shall be examined by a board of medical officers designated by the Superintendent of the Naval Academy or of the Postgraduate School, as appropriate, one year after his retirement and annually thereafter, until he becomes 65 years of age.


(d)
 Payments by the Secretary under this section shall be terminated if the retired civilian member is found to be sufficiently recovered for useful and efficient service in his former position and is offered reemployment in that position by the Superintendent.


(e)
 If a civilian member retired under this section is later reemployed by the United States, the payments by the Secretary shall be terminated.


(f)
 Each civilian member retired under this section who is reemployed as a civilian member of the teaching staff of the Naval Academy or the Naval Postgraduate School shall, upon his later retirement, be paid annually by the Secretary the difference between the total annual amount computed under 
section 7085 of this title
 and the immediate life annuity which the total premiums paid on his annuity contracts would buy.


(g)
 No person may receive payments from the Secretary of the Navy under this chapter and, for the same period of time, compensation under chapter 81 of title 5.


 Election of annuity for self and beneficiary
(a)
 At the time of his retirement, a civilian member retiring under this chapter may elect to receive instead of the amount payable annually by the Secretary of the Navy under section 7085 or 7086 of this title a reduced annuity for his life and an annuity payable after his death to his beneficiary in either—
(1)
 an amount equal to his reduced annuity; or




(2)
 an amount equal to 50 percent of his reduced annuity.





The annuities payable to principal and beneficiary, under either election, shall be in amounts that have, on the date of the retirement of the civilian member, a combined actuarial value equal to the actuarial value of the annuity payable by the Secretary under section 7085 or 7086 of this title, as determined under actuarial tables prepared by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.


(b)
 If the civilian member elects to take a reduced annuity under this section, he shall, at the time of his retirement, designate the beneficiary in writing and file the designation with the Secretary.


(c)
 The annuity payable under this section to the beneficiary of a deceased civilian member shall be terminated upon the death of the beneficiary.


 Regulations
The Secretary of the Navy shall prescribe regulations for the administration of this chapter.
