
Chapter 48
MILITARY CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES
 Establishment; organization; administration
(a)
 The Secretaries concerned may provide for the establishment of such military correctional facilities as are necessary for the confinement of offenders against chapter 47 of this title.


(b)
 The Secretary concerned shall—
(1)
 designate an officer for each armed force under his jurisdiction to administer military correctional facilities established under this chapter;




(2)
 provide for the education, training, rehabilitation, and welfare of offenders confined in a military correctional facility of his department; and




(3)
 provide for the organization and equipping of offenders selected for training with a view to their honorable restoration to duty or possible reenlistment.




(c)
 There shall be an officer in command of each major military correctional facility. Under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary concerned, the officer in command shall have custody and control of offenders confined within the facility which he commands, and shall usefully employ those offenders as he considers best for their health and reformation, with a view to their restoration to duty, enlistment for future service, or return to civilian life as useful citizens.


(d)
 There may be made or repaired at each military correctional facility such supplies for the armed forces or other agencies of the United States as can properly and economically be made or repaired at such facilities.


 Parole
(a)
 The Secretary concerned may provide a system of parole for offenders who are confined in military correctional facilities and who were at the time of commission of their offenses subject to the authority of that Secretary.


(b)
 In a case in which parole for an offender serving a sentence of confinement for life is denied, only the President or the Secretary concerned may grant the offender parole on appeal of that denial. The authority to grant parole on appeal in such a case may not be delegated.


 Remission or suspension of sentence; restoration to duty; reenlistment
 Voluntary extension; probation
The Secretary concerned may provide for persons who were subject to his authority at the time of commission of their offenses a system for retention of selected offenders beyond expiration of normal service obligation in order to voluntarily serve a period of probation with a view to honorable restoration to duty.
 Prisoners transferred to or from foreign countries
(a)
 When a treaty is in effect between the United States and a foreign country providing for the transfer of convicted offenders, the Secretary concerned may, with the concurrence of the Attorney General, transfer to such foreign country any offender against chapter 47 of this title. Such transfer shall be effected subject to the terms of such treaty and chapter 306 of title 18.


(b)
 Whenever the United States is party to an agreement on the status of forces under which the United States may request that it take custody of a prisoner belonging to its armed forces who is confined by order of a foreign court, the Secretary concerned may provide for the carrying out of the terms of such confinement in a military correctional facility of his department or in any penal or correctional institution under the control of the United States or which the United States may be allowed to use. Except as otherwise specified in such agreement, such person shall be treated as if he were an offender against chapter 47 of this title.


 Deserters, prisoners, members absent without leave: expenses and rewards
