
Chapter 953
ACCOUNTABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY
 Custody of departmental records and property
The Secretary of the Air Force has custody and charge of all books, records, papers, furniture, fixtures, and other property under the lawful control of the executive part of the Department of the Air Force.
 Repealed. 
 Repealed. 
 Repealed. 
 Repealed. 
 Settlement of accounts: remission or cancellation of indebtedness of members
(a)
 
In General
.—
The Secretary of the Air Force may have remitted or cancelled any part of the indebtedness of a person to the United States or any instrumentality of the United States incurred while the person was serving on active duty as a member of the Air Force, but only if the Secretary considers such action to be in the best interest of the United States.


(b)
 
Retroactive Applicability to Certain Debts
.—
The authority in subsection (a) may be exercised with respect to any debt covered by that subsection that is incurred on or after 
October 7, 2001
.


(c)
 
Regulations
.—
This section shall be administered under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.


 Settlement of accounts: affidavit of squadron commander
 Settlement of accounts: oaths
The Secretary of the Air Force may detail any employee of the Department of the Air Force to administer oaths required by law in the settlement of an officer’s accounts for clothing and other military supplies. An oath administered under this section shall be without expense to the person to whom it is administered.
 Final settlement of officer’s accounts
Before final payment upon discharge may be made to an officer of the Air Force who has been accountable or responsible for public property, he must obtain a certificate of nonindebtedness to the United States from each officer to whom he was accountable or responsible for property. He must also make an affidavit, certified by his commanding officer to be correct, that he is not accountable or responsible for property to any other officer. An officer who has not been responsible for public property must make an affidavit of that fact, certified by his commanding officer. Compliance with this section warrants the final payment of the officer concerned.
 Payment of small amounts to public creditors
When authorized by the Secretary of the Air Force, a disbursing official of Air Force subsistence funds may keep a limited amount of those funds in the personal possession and at the risk of the disbursing official to pay small amounts to public creditors.
 Settlement of accounts of line officers
The Comptroller General shall settle the account of a line officer of the Air Force for pay due the officer even if the officer cannot account for property entrusted to the officer or cannot make a monthly report or return, when the Comptroller General is satisfied that the inability to account for property or make a report or return was the result of the officer having been a prisoner, or of an accident or casualty of war.
