
Chapter 18
COAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 Short title; definitions
(a)
 This chapter may be cited as the “Coal Research and Development Act of 1960”.


(b)
 In this chapter:
(1)
 The term “research” means scientific, technical, and economic research and the practical application of that research.




(2)
 The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Energy.




 Powers and duties of Secretary
 Repealed. 
 Sites for conducting research; availability of personnel and facilities
Research authorized by this chapter may be conducted wherever suitable personnel and facilities are available.
 Public-availability requirement; national defense; patent agreements
No research shall be carried out, contracted for, sponsored, cosponsored, or authorized under authority of this chapter, unless all information, uses, products, processes, patents, and other developments resulting from such research will (with such exceptions and limitations, if any, as the Secretary may find to be necessary in the interest of national defense) be available to the general public. Whenever in the estimation of the Secretary the purposes of this chapter would be furthered through the use of patented processes or equipment, the Secretary is authorized to enter into such agreements as he deems necessary for the acquisition or use of such patents on reasonable terms and conditions.
 Repealed. 
 Authorization of appropriations
(a)
 Fiscal year beginning 
July 1, 1960
There is hereby authorized to be appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until expended, not to exceed $2,000,000 to be used to carry out the purposes of this chapter for the fiscal year beginning 
July 1, 1960
.




(b)
 Fiscal years beginning after 
June 30, 1961
There are hereby authorized to be appropriated for each fiscal year beginning after 
June 30, 1961
, such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.




(c)
 Availability of sums
Sums appropriated to carry out the purposes of this chapter shall remain available until expended.




