
Chapter 35
DEFINITIONS
 Definitions
(a)
 The term “treaty” means the Patent Cooperation Treaty done at Washington, on 
June 19, 1970
.


(b)
 The term “Regulations”, when capitalized, means the Regulations under the treaty, done at Washington on the same date as the treaty. The term “regulations”, when not capitalized, means the regulations established by the Director under this title.


(c)
 The term “international application” means an application filed under the treaty.


(d)
 The term “international application originating in the United States” means an international application filed in the Patent and Trademark Office when it is acting as a Receiving Office under the treaty, irrespective of whether or not the United States has been designated in that international application.


(e)
 The term “international application designating the United States” means an international application specifying the United States as a country in which a patent is sought, regardless where such international application is filed.


(f)
 The term “Receiving Office” means a national patent office or intergovernmental organization which receives and processes international applications as prescribed by the treaty and the Regulations.


(g)
 The terms “International Searching Authority” and “International Preliminary Examining Authority” mean a national patent office or intergovernmental organization as appointed under the treaty which processes international applications as prescribed by the treaty and the Regulations.


(h)
 The term “International Bureau” means the international intergovernmental organization which is recognized as the coordinating body under the treaty and the Regulations.


(i)
 Terms and expressions not defined in this part are to be taken in the sense indicated by the treaty and the Regulations.


“(a)
 Section 1 of this Act [enacting this part] shall come into force on the same day as the entry into force of the Patent Cooperation Treaty with respect to the United States. It shall apply to international and national applications filed on and after this effective date, even though entitled to the benefit of an earlier filing date, and to patents issued on such applications.


“(b)
 Sections 2 to 10 of this Act [amending sections 6, 41, 42, 102, 104, 112, 113, 120, and 282 of this title] shall take effect on the same day as section 1 of this Act [enacting this part] and shall apply to all applications for patent actually filed in the United States on and after this effective date, as well as to international applications where applicable.


“(c)
 Applications for patent on file in the Patent Office [now the Patent and Trademark Office] on the effective date of this Act, and patents issued on such applications, shall be governed by the provisions of title 35, United States Code, in effect immediately prior to the effective date of this Act.”


