
Chapter 2
PROCEEDINGS IN THE PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE
 Filing date and day for taking action
(a)
 The Director may by rule prescribe that any paper or fee required to be filed in the Patent and Trademark Office will be considered filed in the Office on the date on which it was deposited with the United States Postal Service or would have been deposited with the United States Postal Service but for postal service interruptions or emergencies designated by the Director.


(b)
 When the day, or the last day, for taking any action or paying any fee in the United States Patent and Trademark Office falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday within the District of Columbia, the action may be taken, or the fee paid, on the next succeeding secular or business day.


 Printing of papers filed
The Director may require papers filed in the Patent and Trademark Office to be printed, typewritten, or on an electronic medium.
 Testimony in Patent and Trademark Office cases
The Director may establish rules for taking affidavits and depositions required in cases in the Patent and Trademark Office. Any officer authorized by law to take depositions to be used in the courts of the United States, or of the State where he resides, may take such affidavits and depositions.
 Subpoenas, witnesses
The clerk of any United States court for the district wherein testimony is to be taken for use in any contested case in the Patent and Trademark Office, shall, upon the application of any party thereto, issue a subpoena for any witness residing or being within such district, commanding him to appear and testify before an officer in such district authorized to take depositions and affidavits, at the time and place stated in the subpoena. The provisions of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure relating to the attendance of witnesses and to the production of documents and things shall apply to contested cases in the Patent and Trademark Office.
 Declaration in lieu of oath
(a)
 The Director may by rule prescribe that any document to be filed in the Patent and Trademark Office and which is required by any law, rule, or other regulation to be under oath may be subscribed to by a written declaration in such form as the Director may prescribe, such declaration to be in lieu of the oath otherwise required.


(b)
 Whenever such written declaration is used, the document must warn the declarant that willful false statements and the like are punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both (
18 U.S.C. 1001
).


 Effect of defective execution
Any document to be filed in the Patent and Trademark Office and which is required by any law, rule, or other regulation to be executed in a specified manner may be provisionally accepted by the Director despite a defective execution, provided a properly executed document is submitted within such time as may be prescribed.
 Revival of applications; reinstatement of reexamination proceedings
The Director may establish procedures, including the requirement for payment of the fee specified in section 41(a)(7), to revive an unintentionally abandoned application for patent, accept an unintentionally delayed payment of the fee for issuing each patent, or accept an unintentionally delayed response by the patent owner in a reexamination proceeding, upon petition by the applicant for patent or patent owner.
“(a)
 
In General
.—
The amendments made by this title [enacting this section and 
section 151 of this title
, amending sections 41, 111, 119, 120, 122, 133, 171, 261, 361, 364, 365, and 371 of this title, and repealing 
section 151 of this title
]—
“(1)
 shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [
Dec. 18, 2012
]; and




“(2)
 shall apply to—
“(A)
 any patent issued before, on, or after the effective date set forth in paragraph (1); and




“(B)
 any application for patent that is pending on or filed after the effective date set forth in paragraph (1).






“(b)
 Exceptions.—
“(1)
 
Section 201
(a).—
The amendments made by section 201(a) [amending 
section 111 of this title
] shall apply only to applications that are filed on or after the effective date set forth in subsection (a)(1).




“(2)
 
Patents in litigation
.—
The amendments made by this title shall have no effect with respect to any patent that is the subject of litigation in an action commenced before the effective date set forth in subsection (a)(1).”




