
Chapter 11
IRRIGATION OF ALLOTTED LANDS
 Irrigation lands; regulation of use of water
In cases where the use of water for irrigation is necessary to render the lands within any Indian reservation available for agricultural purposes, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to prescribe such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary to secure a just and equal distribution thereof among the Indians residing upon any such reservations; and no other appropriation or grant of water by any riparian proprietor shall be authorized or permitted to the damage of any other riparian proprietor.
 Irrigation projects under Reclamation Act
In carrying out any irrigation project which may be undertaken under the provisions of the Act of June seventeenth, nineteen hundred and two (Thirty-second Statutes, page three hundred and eighty-eight), known as “The Reclamation Act,” and which may make possible, and provide for in connection with the reclamation of other lands, the irrigation of all or any part of the irrigable lands heretofore included in allotments made to Indians under 
 Repealed. 
 Employment of superintendents of irrigation
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, may employ superintendents of irrigation who shall be skilled irrigation engineers, not to exceed seven in number.
 Maintenance charges; reimbursement of construction costs; apportionment of cost
For lands irrigable under any irrigation system or reclamation project the Secretary of the Interior may fix maintenance charges which shall be paid as he may direct, such payments to be available for use in maintaining the project or system for which collected: 
 Irrigation projects; deposit of assessments as trust fund; disposition of fund
Effective 
 Amounts creditable to fund
There shall be credited to each trust-fund account established under 
 Appropriation and disposition of power revenues
Revenues collected after 
 Reimbursement of construction charges
The Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed to require the owners of irrigable land under any irrigation system constructed for the benefit of Indians and to which water for irrigation purposes can be delivered to begin partial reimbursement of the construction charges, where reimbursement is required by law, at such times and in such amounts as he may deem best; all payments hereunder to be credited on a per acre basis in favor of the land in behalf of which such payments shall have been made and to be deducted from the total per acre charge assessable against said land.
 Adjustment of reimbursable debts; construction charges
The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to adjust or eliminate reimbursable charges of the Government of the United States existing as debts against individual Indians or tribes of Indians in such a way as shall be equitable and just in consideration of all the circumstances under which such charges were made: 
 Omitted
 Claims for damages; settlement by agreement
The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to pay out of funds available for the Indian irrigation projects for damages caused to owners of lands or other private property of any kind by reason of the operations of the United States, its officers or employees, in the survey, construction, operation, or maintenance of irrigation works of such projects and which may be compromised by agreement between the claimant and the Secretary of the Interior or such officers as he may designate: 
 Investigation and adjustment of irrigation charges on lands within projects on Indian reservations
The Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed to cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the owners of non-Indian lands under Indian irrigation projects and under projects where the United States has purchased water rights for Indians are unable to pay irrigation charges, including construction, maintenance, and operating charges, because of inability to operate such lands profitably by reason of lack of fertility of the soil, inadequacy of water supply, defects of irrigation works, or for any other causes. Where the Secretary finds that said landowners are unable to make payment due to the existence of such causes, he may adjust, defer, or cancel such charges, in whole or in part, as the facts and conditions warrant. In adjusting or deferring any such charges the Secretary may enter into contracts with said land owners for the payment of past due charges, but such contracts shall not extend the payment of such charges over a period in excess of ten years.
 Declaring lands to be temporarily nonirrigable
Where the Secretary finds that any such lands cannot be cultivated profitably due to a present lack of water supply, proper drainage facilities, or need of additional construction work, he shall declare such lands temporarily nonirrigable for periods not to exceed five years and no charges shall be assessed against such lands during such periods.
 Elimination to permanently nonirrigable lands
Where the Secretary finds that any such lands are permanently nonirrigable he may, with the consent of the landowner, eliminate such lands from the project.
 Cancellation of charges in absence of lien or contract for payment
Where irrigation assessments against any such lands remained unpaid at the time the Indian title to such lands became extinguished and no lien existed and attached to such lands for the payment of charges so assessed and no contract for the payment of such charges was entered into, the Secretary shall cancel all such charges.
 Rules and regulations
The Secretary shall have power to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of sections 389 to 389e of this title.
 Actions taken to be included in report to Congress
The Secretary shall include in the report to Congress required pursuant to section 389a 
 Concessions on reservoir sites and other lands in Indian irrigation projects; leases for agricultural, grazing, and other purposes
The Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized, in his discretion, to grant concessions on reservoir sites, reserves for canals or flowage areas, and other lands under his jurisdiction which have been withdrawn or otherwise acquired in connection with the San Carlos, Fort Hall, Flathead, and Duck Valley or Western Shoshone irrigation projects for the benefit in whole or in part of Indians, and to lease such lands for agricultural, grazing, or other purposes: 
“(a)
 
Effective Date of Authorization
.—
The authorization contained in 
section 3708(b) of this title
 [
106 Stat. 4748
] shall become effective as of the date the Secretary causes to be published in the Federal Register a statement of findings [The statement was published in the Federal Register on 
Dec. 28, 1999
, 64 F.R. 72674.] that—
“(1)
 the Secretary has fulfilled the requirements of sections 3704 and 3706 [
106 Stat. 4742
, 4745];




“(2)
 the Roosevelt Water Conservation District subcontract for agricultural water service from CAP has been revised and executed as provided in section 3705(b) [
106 Stat. 4744
];




“(3)
 the funds authorized by section 3707(c) [
106 Stat. 4748
] have been appropriated and deposited into the Fund;




“(4)
 the contract referred to in section 3707(a)(2) [
106 Stat. 4747
] has been amended;




“(5)
 the State of Arizona has appropriated and deposited into the Fund $3,000,000 as required by the Agreement;




“(6)
 the stipulations attached to the Agreement as Exhibits ‘D’ and ‘E’ have been approved; and




“(7)
 the Agreement has been modified, to the extent it is in conflict with this title [amending this section and 
section 1524 of Title 43
, Public Lands, and enacting provisions set out as a note under 
section 1524 of Title 43
], and has been executed by the Secretary.




“(b)
 
Conditions
.—
(1)
 If the actions described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) of subsection (a) of this section have not occurred by 
March 31, 1999
, subsections (c) and (d) of section 3704 [
106 Stat. 4743
], subsections (a) and (b) of section 3705 [
106 Stat. 4744
], section 3706 [
106 Stat. 4745
], subsections (a)(2), (c), (d), and (f) of section 3707 [
106 Stat. 4747
], subsections (b) and (c) of section 3708 [
106 Stat. 4748
], and subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (j), and (
l
) of 
section 3710 of this title
 [
106 Stat. 4750
, subsec. (e) amends this section], together with any contracts entered into pursuant to any such section or subsection, shall not be effective on and after the date of enactment of this title [
Oct. 30, 1992
], and any funds appropriated pursuant to section 3707(c) [
106 Stat. 4748
], and remaining unobligated and unexpended on the date of the enactment of this title, shall immediately revert to the Treasury, as general revenues, and any funds appropriated by the State of Arizona pursuant to the Agreement, and remaining unobligated and unexpended on the date of the enactment of this title, shall immediately revert to the State of Arizona.




“(2)
 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection, if the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of 
section 3705 of this title
 have been otherwise accomplished pursuant to provisions of the Act of 
October 20, 1988
 [
Pub. L. 100–512
, 
102 Stat. 2549
], the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not be construed as affecting such subsections.




“(c)
 
Extension for River System General Adjudication
.—
If, at any time prior to 
March 31, 1999
, the Secretary notifies the Committee on Indian Affairs of the United States Senate or the Committee on Resources in the United States House of Representatives that the Settlement Agreement, as executed by the Secretary, has been submitted to the Superior Court of the State of Arizona in and for Maricopa County for consideration and approval as part of the General Adjudication of the Gila River System and Source, the [sic] 
March 31, 1999
, referred to in subsection (b)(1) shall be deemed to be changed to 
December 31, 1999
. [The Secretary notified the Committees on 
Mar. 30, 1999
.]”


