
Chapter 40
INDIAN DAMS SAFETY
 Findings
 Definitions
 Dam Safety Maintenance and Repair Program
(a)
 Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a dam safety maintenance and repair program within the Bureau to ensure maintenance and monitoring of the condition of each dam identified pursuant to subsection (e) of this section necessary to maintain the dam in a satisfactory condition on a long-term basis.




(b)
 Transfer of existing functions and personnel
All functions performed before 
August 23, 1994
, pursuant to the Dam Safety Program established by the Secretary of the Interior by order dated 
February 28, 1980
, and all Bureau of Indian Affairs personnel assigned to such program as of 
August 23, 1994
, are hereby transferred to the Dam Safety Maintenance and Repair Program. Any reference in any law, regulation, executive order, reorganization plan, or delegation of authority to the Dam Safety Program is deemed to be a reference to the Dam Safety Maintenance and Repair Program.




(c)
 Rehabilitation
Under the Dam Safety Maintenance and Repair Program, the Secretary shall perform such rehabilitation work as is necessary to bring the dams identified pursuant to subsection (e) of this section to a satisfactory condition. In addition, each dam located on Indian lands shall be regularly maintained pursuant to the Dam Safety Maintenance and Repair Program established pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.




(d)
 Maintenance action plan
The Secretary shall develop a maintenance action plan, which shall include a prioritization of actions to be taken, for those dams with a risk hazard rating of high or significant as identified pursuant to subsection (e) of this section.




(e)
 Identification of dams
(1)
 Development of list
The Secretary shall develop a comprehensive list of dams located on Indian lands that describes the dam safety condition classification of each dam, as specified in paragraph (2), the risk hazard classification of each dam, as specified in paragraph (3), and the conditions resulting from maintenance deficiencies.






(2)
 Dam safety condition classifications
The dam safety condition classification referred to in paragraph (1) is one of the following classifications:
(A)
 Satisfactory
No existing or potential dam safety deficiencies are recognized. Safe performance is expected under all anticipated conditions.






(B)
 Fair
No existing dam safety deficiencies are recognized for normal loading conditions. Infrequent hydrologic or seismic events would probably result in a dam safety deficiency.






(C)
 Conditionally poor
A potential dam safety deficiency is recognized for unusual loading conditions that may realistically occur during the expected life of the structure.






(D)
 Poor
A potential dam safety deficiency is clearly recognized for normal loading conditions. Immediate actions to resolve the deficiency are recommended; reservoir restrictions may be necessary until resolution of the problem.






(E)
 Unsatisfactory
A dam safety deficiency exists for normal loading conditions. Immediate remedial action is required for resolution of the problem.








(3)
 Risk hazard classification
The risk hazard classification referred to in paragraph (1) is one of the following classifications:
(A)
 High
Six or more lives would be at risk or extensive property damage could occur if the dam failed.






(B)
 Significant
Between one and six lives would be at risk or significant property damage could occur if the dam failed.






(C)
 Low
No lives would be at risk and limited property damage would occur if the dam failed.








(f)
 Limitation on program authorization
Work authorized by this chapter shall be for the purpose of dam safety maintenance and structural repair. The Secretary may authorize, upon request of an Indian tribe, up to 20 percent of the cost of repairs to be used to provide additional conservation storage capacity or developing benefits beyond those provided by the original dams and reservoirs. This chapter is not intended to preclude development of increased storage or benefits under any other authority or to preclude measures to protect fish and wildlife.




(g)
 Technical assistance
To carry out the purposes of this chapter, the Secretary may obtain technical assistance on a nonreimbursable basis from other departments and agencies. Notwithstanding any such technical assistance, the Dam Safety Maintenance and Repair Program established under subsection (a) of this section shall be under the direction and control of the Bureau.




(h)
 Contract authority
In addition to any other authority established by law, the Secretary is authorized to contract with Indian tribes under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (
25 U.S.C. 450
 et seq.) to carry out the Dam Safety Maintenance and Repair Program established under this chapter.




(i)
 Annual report
The Secretary shall submit an annual report on the implementation of this chapter. The report shall include—
(1)
 the list of dams and their status on the maintenance action plan developed under this section; and




(2)
 the projected total cost and a schedule of the projected annual cost of rehabilitation or repair for each dam under this section.





The report shall be submitted at the time the budget is required to be submitted under 
section 1105 of title 31
 to the Subcommittee on Native American Affairs of the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate.


 Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this chapter. Funds provided under this chapter are to be considered nonreimbursable.
