
Chapter 9C
OFFICE OF PARLIAMENTARIAN OF HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 Establishment
There is hereby established in the House of Representatives an office to be known as the Office of the Parliamentarian, hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the “Office”.
 Parliamentarian
The management, supervision, and administration of the Office shall be vested in the Parliamentarian, who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the position. Any person so appointed shall serve at the pleasure of the Speaker.
 Staff; Deputy Parliamentarian; delegation of functions
(a)
 With the approval of the Speaker, or in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Speaker, the Parliamentarian shall appoint such attorneys and other employees as may be necessary for the prompt and efficient performance of the functions of the Office. Any such appointment shall be made without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the duties of the position. Any person so appointed may be removed by the Parliamentarian with the approval of the Speaker, or in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Speaker.


(b)
(1)
 One of the attorneys appointed under subsection (a) of this section shall be designated by the Parliamentarian as Deputy Parliamentarian. During the absence or disability of the Parliamentarian, or when the office is vacant, the Deputy Parliamentarian shall perform the functions of the Parliamentarian.




(2)
 The Parliamentarian may delegate to the Deputy Parliamentarian and to other employees appointed under subsection (a) of this section such of the functions of the Parliamentarian as the Parliamentarian considers necessary or appropriate.




 Compensation
(a)
 The Parliamentarian shall be paid at a per annum gross rate established by the Speaker but not in excess of the rate of basic pay determined from time to time under subsection (b) of section 3 of the Speaker’s salary directive of 
June 11, 1968
.


(b)
 Members of the staff of the Office other than the Parliamentarian shall be paid at per annum gross rates fixed by the Parliamentarian with the approval of the Speaker or in accordance with policies approved by the Speaker, but not in excess of the rate of basic pay set forth in subsection (a) of this section.


 Expenditures
In accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Speaker, the Parliamentarian may make such expenditures as may be necessary or appropriate for the functioning of the Office.
