
Chapter 9
HOMELAND DEFENSE ACTIVITIES
 Definitions
 Homeland defense activities: funds
The Secretary of Defense may provide funds to a Governor to employ National Guard units or members to conduct homeland defense activities that the Secretary,
 Regulations
The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to implement this chapter.
 Homeland defense duty
(a)
 
Full-Time National Guard Duty
.—
All duty performed under this chapter shall be considered to be full-time National Guard duty under 
section 502(f) of this title
. Members of the National Guard performing full-time National Guard duty in the Active Guard and Reserve Program may support or execute homeland defense activities performed by the National Guard under this chapter.


(b)
 
Duration
.—
The period for which a member of the National Guard performs duty under this chapter shall be limited to 180 days. The Governor of the State may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense, extend the period one time for an additional 90 days to meet extraordinary circumstances.


(c)
 
Relationship to Required Training
.—
A member of the National Guard performing duty under this chapter shall, in addition to performing such duty, participate in the training required under 
section 502(a) of this title
. The pay, allowances, and other benefits of the member while participating in the training shall be the same as those to which the member is entitled while performing the duty under this chapter. The member is not entitled to additional pay, allowances, or other benefits for participation in training required under 
section 502(a)(1) of this title
.


(d)
 
Readiness
.—
To ensure that the use of units and personnel of the National Guard of a State for homeland defense activities does not degrade the training and readiness of such units and personnel, the following requirements shall apply in determining the homeland defense activities that units and personnel of the National Guard of a State may perform:
(1)
 The performance of the activities is not to affect adversely the quality of that training or otherwise interfere with the ability of a member or unit of the National Guard to perform the military functions of the member or unit.




(2)
 The performance of the activities is not to degrade the military skills of the members of the National Guard performing those activities.




 Funding assistance
 Requests for funding assistance
 Relationship to State duty
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the authority of any unit of the National Guard of a State, when such unit is not in Federal service, to perform functions authorized to be performed by the National Guard by the laws of the State concerned.
 Annual report
(a)
 
Requirement for Report
.—
After the end of any fiscal year during which any assistance was provided or activities were carried out under this chapter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report regarding any assistance provided and activities carried out under this chapter during that fiscal year. The report for a fiscal year shall be submitted not later than March 31 of the year following the year in which such fiscal year ended.


(b)
 
Content
.—
The report for a fiscal year shall include the following matters:
(1)
 The numbers of members of the National Guard excluded under subsection (i)(13) of 
section 115 of title 10
 from being counted for the purpose of end-strengths authorized pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of such section.




(2)
 A description of the homeland defense activities conducted with funds provided under this chapter.




(3)
 An accounting of the amount of the funds provided to each State.




(4)
 A description of the effect on military training and readiness of using units and personnel of the National Guard to perform homeland defense activities under this chapter.




