
Chapter 86
CHILDREN’S BICYCLE HELMET SAFETY
 Establishment of program
(a)
 In general
The Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration may, in accordance with 
section 6002 of this title
, make grants to States, political subdivisions of States, and nonprofit organizations for programs that require or encourage individuals under the age of 16 to wear approved bicycle helmets. In making those grants, the Administrator shall allow grantees to use wide discretion in designing programs that effectively promote increased bicycle helmet use.




(b)
 Federal share
The amount provided by a grant under this section shall not exceed 80 percent of the cost of the program for which the grant is made. In crediting the recipient State, political subdivision, or nonprofit organization for the non-Federal share of the cost of such a program (other than planning and administration), the aggregate of all expenditures made by such State, political subdivision, or nonprofit organization (exclusive of Federal funds) for the purposes described in 
section 6002 of this title
 (other than expenditures for planning and administration) shall be available for such crediting, without regard to whether such expenditures were actually made in connection with such program.




 Purposes for grants
 Report to Congress
Not later than 
 Standards
(a)
 In general
Bicycle helmets manufactured 9 months or more after 
June 16, 1994
, shall conform to—
(1)
 any interim standard described under subsection (b) of this section, pending the establishment of a final standard pursuant to subsection (c) of this section; and




(2)
 the final standard, once it has been established under subsection (c) of this section.




(b)
 Interim standards
The interim standards are as follows:
(1)
 The American National Standards Institute standard designated as “Z90.4–1984”.




(2)
 The Snell Memorial Foundation standard designated as “B–90”.




(3)
 The American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) standard designated as “F 1447”.




(4)
 Any other standard that the Commission determines is appropriate.




(c)
 Final standard
Not later than 60 days after 
June 16, 1994
, the Commission shall begin a proceeding under 
section 553 of title 5
 to—
(1)
 review the requirements of the interim standards set forth in subsection (a) of this section and establish a final standard based on such requirements;




(2)
 include in the final standard a provision to protect against the risk of helmets coming off the heads of bicycle riders;




(3)
 include in the final standard provisions that address the risk of injury to children; and




(4)
 include additional provisions as appropriate.





Sections 7, 9, and 30(d) 
1
1
 See References in Text note below.
 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (
15 U.S.C. 2056
, 2058, 2079(d)) shall not apply to the proceeding under this subsection and section 11 of such Act (
15 U.S.C. 2060
) shall not apply with respect to any standard issued under such proceeding. The final standard shall take effect 1 year from the date it is issued.


(d)
 Failure to meet standards
(1)
 Failure to meet interim standard
Until the final standard takes effect, a bicycle helmet that does not conform to an interim standard as required under subsection (a)(1) of this section shall be considered in violation of a consumer product safety standard promulgated under the Consumer Product Safety Act [
15 U.S.C. 2051
 et seq.].






(2)
 Status of final standard
The final standard developed under subsection (c) of this section shall be considered a consumer product safety standard promulgated under the Consumer Product Safety Act.






 Authorization of appropriations
For the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to carry out the grant program authorized by this chapter, there are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, $3,000,000 for fiscal year 1996, and $4,000,000 for fiscal year 1997.
 “Approved bicycle helmet” defined
