
Chapter 95
MICROENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM
 Definitions
 Establishment of program
The Administrator shall establish a microenterprise technical assistance and capacity building grant program to provide assistance from the Administration in the form of grants to qualified organizations in accordance with this chapter.
 Uses of assistance
 Qualified organizations
 Allocation of assistance; subgrants
(a)
 Allocation of assistance
(1)
 In general
The Administrator shall allocate assistance from the Administration under this chapter to ensure that—
(A)
 activities described in 
section 6903(1) of this title
 are funded using not less than 75 percent of amounts made available for such assistance; and




(B)
 activities described in 
section 6903(2) of this title
 are funded using not less than 15 percent of amounts made available for such assistance.






(2)
 Limit on individual assistance
No single person may receive more than 10 percent of the total funds appropriated under this chapter in a single fiscal year.






(b)
 Targeted assistance
The Administrator shall ensure that not less than 50 percent of the grants made under this chapter are used to benefit very low-income persons, including those residing on Indian reservations.




(c)
 Subgrants authorized
(1)
 In general
A qualified organization receiving assistance under this chapter may provide grants using that assistance to qualified small and emerging microenterprise organizations and programs, subject to such rules and regulations as the Administrator determines to be appropriate.






(2)
 Limit on administrative expenses
Not more than 7.5 percent of assistance received by a qualified organization under this chapter may be used for administrative expenses in connection with the making of subgrants under paragraph (1).






(d)
 Diversity
In making grants under this chapter, the Administrator shall ensure that grant recipients include both large and small microenterprise organizations, serving urban, rural, and Indian tribal communities serving diverse populations.




(e)
 Prohibition on preferential consideration of certain SBA program participants
In making grants under this chapter, the Administrator shall ensure that any application made by a qualified organization that is a participant in the program established under 
section 636(m) of this title
 does not receive preferential consideration over applications from other qualified organizations that are not participants in such program.




 Matching requirements
(a)
 In general
Financial assistance under this chapter shall be matched with funds from sources other than the Federal Government on the basis of not less than 50 percent of each dollar provided by the Administration.




(b)
 Sources of matching funds
Fees, grants, gifts, funds from loan sources, and in-kind resources of a grant recipient from public or private sources may be used to comply with the matching requirement in subsection (a) of this section.




(c)
 Exception
(1)
 In general
In the case of an applicant for assistance under this chapter with severe constraints on available sources of matching funds, the Administrator may reduce or eliminate the matching requirements of subsection (a) of this section.






(2)
 Limitation
Not more than 10 percent of the total funds made available from the Administration in any fiscal year to carry out this chapter may be excepted from the matching requirements of subsection (a) of this section, as authorized by paragraph (1) of this subsection.






 Applications for assistance
An application for assistance under this chapter shall be submitted in such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator shall establish.
 Recordkeeping
The requirements of 
 Authorization
 Implementation
The Administrator shall, by regulation, establish such requirements as may be necessary to carry out this chapter.
