
Chapter 48
HOBBY PROTECTION
 Marking requirements
(a)
 Political items
The manufacture in the United States, or the importation into the United States, for introduction into or distribution in commerce of any imitation political item which is not plainly and permanently marked with the calendar year in which such item was manufactured, is unlawful and is an unfair or deceptive act or practice in commerce under the Federal Trade Commission Act [
15 U.S.C. 41
 et seq.].




(b)
 Coins and other numismatic items
The manufacture in the United States, or the importation into the United States, for introduction into or distribution in commerce of any imitation numismatic item which is not plainly and permanently marked “copy”, is unlawful and is an unfair or deceptive act or practice in commerce under the Federal Trade Commission Act [
15 U.S.C. 41
 et seq.].




(c)
 Rules and regulations
The Federal Trade Commission shall prescribe rules for determining the manner and form in which items described in subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall be permanently marked.




(d)
 Exemption
Subsections (a) and (b), and regulations under subsection (c) of this section, shall not apply to any common carrier or contract carrier or freight forwarder with respect to an imitation political item or imitation numismatic item received, shipped, delivered, or handled by it for shipment in the ordinary course of its business.




 Private enforcement
If any person violates section 2101(a) or (b) of this title or a rule under 
 Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission
(a)
 Statutory authority
Except as provided in 
section 2102 of this title
, this chapter shall be enforced by the Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act [
15 U.S.C. 41
 et seq.].




(b)
 Incorporation of Federal Trade Commission Act provisions
The Commission shall prevent any person from violating the provisions of this chapter in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act [
15 U.S.C. 41
 et seq.] were incorporated into and made a part of this chapter; and any such person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in said Federal Trade Commission Act, in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though the applicable terms and provisions of the said Federal Trade Commission Act were incorporated into and made a part of this chapter.




 Imports
Any item imported into the United States in violation of section 2101(a) or (b) of this title or regulations under 
 Application of other laws
The provisions of this chapter are in addition to, and not in substitution for or limitation of, the provisions of any other law of the United States or of the law of any State.
 Definitions
