
Chapter 7A
STANDARD REFERENCE DATA PROGRAM
 Congressional declaration of policy
The Congress hereby finds and declares that reliable standardized scientific and technical reference data are of vital importance to the progress of the Nation’s science and technology. It is therefore the policy of the Congress to make critically evaluated reference data readily available to scientists, engineers, and the general public. It is the purpose of this chapter to strengthen and enhance this policy.
 Definitions
(a)
 The term “standard reference data” means quantitative information, related to a measurable physical or chemical property of a substance or system of substances of known composition and structure, which is critically evaluated as to its reliability under 
section 290b of this title
.


(b)
 The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce.


 Collection, compilation, critical evaluation, publication and dissemination of standard reference data
The Secretary is authorized and directed to provide or arrange for the collection, compilation, critical evaluation, publication, and dissemination of standard reference data. In carrying out this program, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, utilize the reference data services and facilities of other agencies and instrumentalities of the Federal Government and of State and local governments, persons, firms, institutions, and associations, with their consent and in such a manner as to avoid duplication of those services and facilities. All agencies and instrumentalities of the Federal Government are encouraged to exercise their duties and functions in such manner as will assist in carrying out the purpose of this chapter. This section shall be deemed complementary to existing authority, and nothing herein is intended to repeal, supersede, or diminish existing authority or responsibility of any agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
 Standards, criteria, and procedures for preparation and publication of standard reference data; publication in Federal Register
To provide for more effective integration and coordination of standard reference data activities, the Secretary, in consultation with other interested Federal agencies, shall prescribe and publish in the Federal Register such standards, criteria, and procedures for the preparation and publication of standard reference data as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
 Sale of standard reference data; cost recovery; proceeds subject to National Institute of Standards and Technology
Standard reference data conforming to standards established by the Secretary may be made available and sold by the Secretary or by a person or agency designated by him. To the extent practicable and appropriate, the prices established for such data may reflect the cost of collection, compilation, evaluation, publication, and dissemination of the data, including administrative expenses; and the amounts received shall be subject to the Act of 
 United States copyright and renewal rights
(a)
 Notwithstanding the limitations under 
section 105 of title 17
, the Secretary may secure copyright and renewal thereof on behalf of the United States as author or proprietor in all or any part of any standard reference data which he prepares or makes available under this chapter, and may authorize the reproduction and publication thereof by others.


(b)
 The publication or republication by the Government under this chapter, either separately or in a public document, of any material in which copyright is subsisting shall not be taken to cause any abridgment or annulment of the copyright or to authorize any use or appropriation of such material without the consent of the copyright proprietor.


 Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this chapter, $1.86 million for the fiscal year ending 
