
Chapter 57
UNITED STATES SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
 Statement of purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish an undergraduate scholarship program designed to bring students of limited financial means from developing countries to the United States for study at United States institutions of higher education.
 Congressional findings and declaration of policy
 Scholarship program authority
(a)
 In general
The President, acting through the United States Information Agency, shall provide scholarships (including partial assistance) for undergraduate study at United States institutions of higher education by citizens and nationals of developing countries who have completed their secondary education and who would not otherwise have an opportunity to study in the United States due to financial limitations.




(b)
 Form of scholarship; forgiveness of loan repayment
To encourage students to use their training in their countries of origin, each scholarship pursuant to this section shall be in the form of a loan with all repayment to be forgiven upon the student’s prompt return to his or her country of origin for a period which is at least one year longer than the period spent studying in the United States. If the student is granted asylum in the United States pursuant to 
section 1158 of title 8
 or is admitted to the United States as a refugee pursuant to 
section 1157 of title 8
, half of the repayment shall be forgiven.




(c)
 Consultation
Before allocating any of the funds made available to carry out this chapter, the President shall consult with United States institutions of higher education, educational exchange organizations, United States missions in developing countries, and the governments of participating countries on how to implement the guidelines specified in 
section 4704 of this title
.




(d)
 “Institution of higher education” defined
For purposes of this chapter, the term “institution of higher education” has the same meaning as given to such term by 
section 1001 of title 20
.




 Guidelines
 Authority to enter into agreements
The President may enter into agreements with foreign governments in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter. Such agreements may provide for the creation or continuation of binational or multinational educational and cultural foundations and commissions for the purposes of administering programs under this chapter.
 Policy regarding other international educational programs
(a)
 AID-funded programs
The Congress urges the administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [
22 U.S.C. 2151
 et seq.], in implementing programs authorized under that part, to increase assistance for undergraduate scholarships for students of limited financial means from developing countries to study in the United States at United States institutions of higher education. To the maximum extent practicable, such scholarship assistance shall be furnished in accordance with the guidelines contained in 
section 4704 of this title
.




(b)
 USIA-funded postgraduate study in the United States
The Congress urges the Director of the United States Information Agency to expand opportunities for students of limited financial means from developing countries to receive financial assistance for postgraduate study at United States institutions of higher education.




(c)
 Study by Americans in developing countries
The Congress urges the President to take such steps as are necessary to expand the opportunities for Americans from all economic classes to study in developing countries.




 Establishment and maintenance of counseling services
(a)
 Counseling services abroad
For the purpose of assisting foreign students in choosing fields of study, selecting appropriate institutions of higher education, and preparing for their stay in the United States, the President may make suitable arrangements for counseling and orientation services abroad.




(b)
 Counseling services in the United States
For the purposes of assisting foreign students in making the best use of their opportunities while attending United States institutions of higher education, and assisting such students in directing their talents and initiative into channels which will make them more effective leaders upon return to their native lands, the President may make suitable arrangements (by contract or otherwise) for the establishment and maintenance of adequate counseling services at United States institutions of higher education which are attended by foreign students.




 J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
The J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board shall advise and assist the President in the discharge of the scholarship program carried out pursuant to this chapter, in accordance with the guidelines set forth in 
 General authorities
(a)
 Public and private sector contributions
The public and private sectors in the United States and in the developing countries shall be encouraged to contribute to the costs of the scholarship program financed under this chapter.




(b)
 Utilization of returning program participants
The President shall seek to engage the public and private sectors of developing countries in programs to maximize the utilization of recipients of scholarships under this chapter upon their return to their own countries.




(c)
 Promotion abroad of scholarship program
The President may provide for publicity and promotion abroad of the scholarship program provided for in this chapter.




(d)
 Increasing United States understanding of developing countries
The President shall encourage United States institutions of higher education, which are attended by students from developing countries who receive scholarships under this chapter, to provide opportunities for United States citizens attending those institutions to develop their knowledge and understanding of the developing countries, and the languages and cultures of those countries, represented by those foreign students.




(e)
 Other activities to promote improved understanding
Funds allocated by the United States Information Agency, or the agency primarily responsible for carrying out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [
22 U.S.C. 2151
 et seq.], for scholarships in accordance with this chapter shall be available to enhance the educational training and capabilities of the people of Latin America and the Caribbean and to promote better understanding between the United States and Latin America and the Caribbean through programs of cooperation, study, training, and research. Such funds may be used for program and administrative costs for institutions carrying out such programs.




 English teaching, textbooks, and other teaching materials
Wherever adequate facilities or materials are not available to carry out the purposes of paragraph (4) of 
 Repealed. 
 Funding of scholarships for fiscal year 1986 and fiscal year 1987
(a)
 Central American undergraduate scholarship program
The undergraduate scholarship program financed by the United States Information Agency for students from Central America for fiscal year 1986 and fiscal year 1987 shall be conducted in accordance with this chapter.




(b)
 Scholarships for students from other developing countries
Any funds appropriated to the United States Information Agency for fiscal year 1986 or fiscal year 1987 for any purpose (other than funds appropriated for educational exchange programs under 
section 2452(a)(1) of this title
 
1
1
 So in original. Probably should be followed by a closing parenthesis.
 may be used to carry out this chapter with respect to students from developing countries outside Central America.




 Latin American exchanges
Of any funds authorized to be appropriated for activities authorized by this chapter, not less than 25 percent shall be allocated to fund grants and exchanges to Latin America and the Caribbean.
 Feasibility study of training programs in sizable Hispanic populations
No later than 
 Compliance with Congressional Budget Act
