
Chapter 56
NORTH ATLANTIC SALMON FISHING
 Definitions
 United States representation on Council and Commissions
(a)
 Appointment and qualifications of Commissioners
The United States shall be represented on the Council and Commissions by three United States Commissioners to be appointed by the President to serve at his pleasure. Of such Commissioners, one shall be an official of the United States Government, and two shall be individuals (not officials of the United States Government) who are knowledgeable or experienced concerning the conservation and management of salmon of United States origin.




(b)
 Alternate Commissioners
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of the Interior, may designate alternate United States Commissioners. In the absence of a Commissioner appointed under subsection (a) of this section, an alternate Commissioner may exercise at any meeting of the Organization, the Council, or any Commission all functions of such Commissioner.




(c)
 Limited Federal employee status
Individuals who serve as Commissioners and alternate Commissioners shall not receive any compensation for such service. Such individuals shall not be considered to be Federal employees while performing such service, except for purposes of injury compensation or tort claims liability as provided in chapter 81 of title 5 and chapter 171 of title 28.




(d)
 Consultation with other parties
In carrying out their functions under the Convention, the Commissioners may consult with the appropriate Regional Fishery Management Councils established by section 302 of the Act of 1976 (
16 U.S.C. 1852
), and may consult with such other interested parties as they consider appropriate. The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. et seq.) shall not apply to consultations described in this subsection.




 Receipt of Organization communications by Secretary of State
(a)
 Concurrence with Secretaries of Commerce and the Interior on regulatory measures; action on other matters
The Secretary of State may—
(1)
 receive, on behalf of the United States, reports, requests, recommendations, proposals, and other communications of the Organization and its subsidiary organs;




(2)
 with the concurrence of the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of the Interior, approve, object to, or withdraw objections to regulatory measures proposed in accordance with the Convention; and




(3)
 act upon, or refer to other appropriate authority, any communication referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection other than a proposed regulatory measure.




(b)
 Submission to President on failure of concurrence on regulatory matters
If the concurrence required under subsection (a)(2) of this section has not been obtained by the Secretary of State—
(1)
 regarding the approval of, or the objection to, a proposed regulatory measure within forty-five days after the measure was received on behalf of the United States; or




(2)
 regarding the withdrawal of an objection of the United States to a proposed regulatory measure within forty-five days after such withdrawal is proposed by the Secretary of State;





the Secretary of State shall submit the matter in disagreement, together with a statement of the opposing positions, to the President for timely disposition.


 Regulations and reports
(a)
 Promulgation of regulations; implementation; applicability
The Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall promulgate such regulations pursuant to 
section 553 of title 5
 as may be necessary to carry out the purposes and objectives of the Convention and this chapter, and to implement regulatory measures that are binding on the United States under the Convention. Any such regulation may be made applicable, as necessary, to all persons and all vessels subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, wherever located.




(b)
 Preparation and submission of reports by certain Secretaries
The Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall prepare all statements, reports, and notifications, required by articles 14 and 15 of the Convention and submit such documents to the Secretary of State for transmission to the Organization.




 Cooperation with other agencies and institutions
(a)
 Federal and State agencies; private institutions
In carrying out the provisions of the Convention, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, may arrange for the cooperation of agencies of the United States and the States, and of private institutions and organizations.




(b)
 Use of Federal facilities; reimbursement
Appropriate agencies of the United States may cooperate in the conduct of scientific and other programs, and may furnish facilities and personnel, for the purposes of assisting the Organization in carrying out its duties under the Convention. Such agencies may accept reimbursement from the Organization for providing such services, facilities, and personnel.




 Violations and penalties
(a)
 Directed fishing for salmon; Convention, rules and regulations
It is unlawful for any person, or any vessel, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States—
(1)
 to conduct directed fishing for salmon in waters seaward of twelve miles from the baselines from which the breadths of territorial seas are measured, in waters of the Atlantic Ocean north of 36 degrees north latitude; or




(2)
 to violate any provision of the Convention or this chapter, or of any regulation promulgated under this chapter.




(b)
 Civil and criminal penalties
Any person who commits any act that is unlawful under subsection (a) of this section shall—
(1)
 be liable to the United States for a civil penalty under section 308 of the Act of 1976 (
16 U.S.C. 1858
) to the same extent as if such act were an act prohibited under section 307 of the Act of 1976 (
16 U.S.C. 1857
); and




(2)
 be guilty of an offense under section 309 of the Act of 1976 (
16 U.S.C. 1859
) to the same extent as if such act were an act prohibited by section 307(1)(D), (E), (F), or (H) of the Act of 1976 (
16 U.S.C. 1857(1)(D)
, (E), (F), or (H)).




(c)
 Civil forfeiture of vessel
Any vessel used, and any fish (or the fair market value thereof) taken or retained in any manner, in connection with or as the result of the commission of an act which is unlawful under subsection (a) of this section shall be subject to civil forfeiture under section 310 of the Act of 1976 (
16 U.S.C. 1860
) to the same extent as if such vessel was used in, or such fish was taken or retained in connection with or as the result of, the commission of an act prohibited by section 307 of the Act of 1976 (
16 U.S.C. 1857
).




 Enforcement
The Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and any regulation issued under this chapter. For purposes of such enforcement, such provisions and regulations shall be considered to be provisions of the Act of 1976 [
 Authorization of appropriations
