
Chapter 42
EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PROGRAM
 Payments to agricultural producers for carrying out wind erosion control or rehabilitation measures; criteria
The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to make payments to agricultural producers who carry out emergency measures to control wind erosion on farmlands or to rehabilitate farmlands damaged by wind erosion, floods, hurricanes, or other natural disasters when, as a result of the foregoing, new conservation problems have been created that (1) if not treated, will impair or endanger the land, (2) materially affect the productive capacity of the land, (3) represent damage that is unusual in character and, except for wind erosion, is not the type that would recur frequently in the same area, and (4) will be so costly to rehabilitate that Federal assistance is or will be required to return the land to productive agricultural use.
 Payments to agricultural producers for carrying out water conservation or water enhancing measures; criteria
The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to make payments to agricultural producers who carry out emergency water conservation or water enhancing measures (including measures carried out to assist confined livestock) during periods of severe drought as determined by the Secretary.
 Emergency measures
(a)
 In general
The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to undertake emergency measures, including the purchase of floodplain easements, for runoff retardation and soil-erosion prevention, in cooperation with landowners and land users, as the Secretary deems necessary to safeguard lives and property from floods, drought, and the products of erosion on any watershed whenever fire, flood, or any other natural occurrence is causing or has caused a sudden impairment of that watershed.




(b)
 Floodplain easements
(1)
 Modification and termination
The Secretary may modify or terminate a floodplain easement administered by the Secretary under this section if—
(A)
 the current owner agrees to the modification or termination; and




(B)
 the Secretary determines that the modification or termination—
(i)
 will address a compelling public need for which there is no practicable alternative; and




(ii)
 is in the public interest.








(2)
 Consideration
(A)
 Termination
As consideration for termination of an easement and associated agreements under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall enter into compensatory arrangements as determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.






(B)
 Modification
In the case of a modification under paragraph (1)—
(i)
 as a condition of the modification, the current owner shall enter into a compensatory arrangement (as determined to be appropriate by the Secretary) to incur the costs of modification; and




(ii)
 the Secretary shall ensure that—
(I)
 the modification will not adversely affect the floodplain functions and values for which the easement was acquired;




(II)
 any adverse impacts will be mitigated by enrollment and restoration of other land that provides greater floodplain functions and values at no additional cost to the Federal Government; and




(III)
 the modification will result in equal or greater environmental and economic values to the United States.










“(a)
 
In General
.—
The Secretary of Agriculture may provide disaster relief assistance in accordance with this section to repair damage caused by storms occurring in 1988 or 1989 to watersheds located in any county in any State, to the extent that funds authorized by this section remain available.


“(b)
 
Form of Assistance
.—
The assistance authorized by this section—
“(1)
 includes both financial and technical assistance; and




“(2)
 shall be provided in a manner consistent with similar assistance authorized under section 403 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (
16 U.S.C. 2203
).




“(c)
 
Authorization of Appropriations
.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1990.”


 Authorization of appropriations; availability of funds; implementation of provisions; limitations on expenditures
There are authorized to be appropriated such funds as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter. Such funds shall remain available until expended. In implementing the provisions of this chapter, the Secretary of Agriculture may use the facilities, services, and authorities of the Commodity Credit Corporation. The Corporation shall not make any expenditures to carry out the provisions of this chapter unless funds specifically appropriated for such purpose have been transferred to it.
 Regulations for implementation of provisions
The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to prescribe such regulations as the Secretary determines necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
 Emergency forest restoration program
(a)
 Definitions
In this section:
(1)
 Emergency measures
The term “emergency measures” means those measures that—
(A)
 are necessary to address damage caused by a natural disaster to natural resources on nonindustrial private forest land, and the damage, if not treated—
(i)
 would impair or endanger the natural resources on the land; and




(ii)
 would materially affect future use of the land; and






(B)
 would restore forest health and forest-related resources on the land.






(2)
 Natural disaster
The term “natural disaster” includes wildfires, hurricanes or excessive winds, drought, ice storms or blizzards, floods, or other resource-impacting events, as determined by the Secretary.






(3)
 Nonindustrial private forest land
The term “nonindustrial private forest land” means rural land, as determined by the Secretary, that—
(A)
 has existing tree cover (or had tree cover immediately before the natural disaster and is suitable for growing trees); and




(B)
 is owned by any nonindustrial private individual, group, association, corporation, or other private legal entity, that has definitive decision-making authority over the land.






(4)
 Secretary
The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.






(b)
 Availability of assistance
The Secretary may make payments to an owner of nonindustrial private forest land who carries out emergency measures to restore the land after the land is damaged by a natural disaster.




(c)
 Eligibility
To be eligible to receive a payment under subsection (b), an owner must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the nonindustrial private forest land on which the emergency measures are carried out had tree cover immediately before the natural disaster.




(d)
 Cost share requirement
Payments made under subsection (b) shall not exceed 75 percent of the total cost of the emergency measures carried out by an owner of nonindustrial private forest land.




(e)
 Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such funds as may be necessary to carry out this section. Amounts so appropriated shall remain available until expended.




