
Chapter 29
WATER BANK PROGRAM FOR WETLANDS PRESERVATION
 Congressional declaration of policy; authority of Secretary
The Congress finds that it is in the public interest to preserve, restore, and improve the wetlands of the Nation, and thereby to conserve surface waters, to preserve and improve habitat for migratory waterfowl and other wildlife resources, to reduce runoff, soil and wind erosion, and contribute to flood control, to contribute to improved water quality and reduce stream sedimentation, to contribute to improved subsurface moisture, to reduce acres of new land coming into production and to retire lands now in agricultural production, to enhance the natural beauty of the landscape, and to promote comprehensive and total water management planning. The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the “Secretary”) is authorized and directed to formulate and carry out a continuous program to prevent the serious loss of wetlands, and to preserve, restore, and improve such lands, which program shall begin on 
 Conservation agreements to effectuate water bank program; duration and renewal; adjustment of payment rate for renewal period; “wetlands” defined; duration of ownership or control of land as determining eligibility for agreements; protection of and compensation for tenants and sharecroppers; participation by owner or operator in other Federal or State programs
In effectuating the water bank program authorized by this chapter, the Secretary shall have authority to enter into agreements with landowners and operators in important migratory waterfowl nesting and breeding areas for the conservation of water on specified farm, ranch, or other wetlands identified in a conservation plan developed in cooperation with the Soil and Water Conservation District in which the lands are located, under such rules and regulations as the Secretary may prescribe. These agreements shall be entered into for a period of ten years, with provision for renewal for additional periods of ten years each. The Secretary shall, beginning in 1980, reexamine the payment rates at the beginning of the fifth year of any such ten-year initial or renewal period and before the beginning of any renewal period, in the light of the then current land and crop values, and make needed adjustments in rates for any such initial or renewal period as provided in 
 Terms of agreement; required provisions
 Annual payment; adjustment
In return for the agreement of the owner or operator, the Secretary shall (1) make an annual payment to the owner or operator for the period of the agreement at such rate or rates as the Secretary determines to be fair and reasonable in consideration of the obligations undertaken by the owner or operator; and (2) bear such part of the average cost of establishing and maintaining conservation and development practices on the wetlands and adjacent areas for the purposes of this chapter as the Secretary determines to be appropriate. In making his determination, the Secretary shall consider, among other things, the rate of compensation necessary to encourage owners or operators of wetlands to participate in the water bank program. The rate or rates of annual payments as determined hereunder shall be increased, by an amount determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, in relation to the benefit to the general public of the use of the wetland areas, together with designated adjacent areas, if the owner or operator agrees to permit, without other compensation, access to such acreage by the general public, during the agreement period, for hunting, trapping, fishing, and hiking, subject to applicable State and Federal regulations. The rates of annual payment shall be adjusted, to the extent provided for in advance by appropriation Acts, in accordance with 
 Renewal or extension of agreement; participation of subsequent owner or operator in program
Any agreement may be renewed or extended at the end of the agreement period for an additional period of ten years by mutual agreement of the Secretary and the owner or operator, subject to any rate redetermination by the Secretary. If during the agreement period the owner or operator sells or otherwise divests himself of the ownership or right of occupancy of such land, the new owner or operator may continue such agreement under the same terms or conditions, or enter into a new agreement in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, including the provisions for renewal and adjustment of payment rates, or he may choose not to participate in such program.
“(a)
 Subject to subsection (b), any agreement entered into under the Water Bank Act (
16 U.S.C. 1301
 et seq.) and due to expire on 
December 31, 1994
, may be extended for 1 year under section 6 of the Water Bank Act (
16 U.S.C. 1305
).


“(b)
 The authority to extend Water Bank Act agreements under this Act may only be exercised to the extent that the amount available for obligation under the Wetlands Reserve Program (
16 U.S.C. 1637
 et seq.) [probably means former 
16 U.S.C. 3837
 et seq.], and the amount used for the extension of Water Bank Act agreements under subsection (a), does not exceed $93,200,000 as provided for the Wetlands Reserve Program under the Agricultural, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995 [
Pub. L. 103–330
, 
108 Stat. 2453
].”


 Termination or modification of agreements
The Secretary may terminate any agreement by mutual agreement with the owner or operator if the Secretary determines that such termination would be in the public interest, and may agree to such modification of agreements as he may determine to be desirable to carry out the purposes of the program or facilitate its administration.
 Utilization of services and facilities
In carrying out the program, the Secretary may utilize the services of local, county, and State committees established under 
 Advisory Board; appointment; functions; membership; reimbursement for expenses
The Secretary may, without regard to the civil service laws, appoint an Advisory Board to advise and consult on matters relating to his functions under this chapter as he deems appropriate. The Board shall consist of persons chosen from members of organizations such as wildlife organizations, land-grant colleges, farm organizations, State game and fish departments, soil and water conservation district associations, water management organizations, and representatives of the general public. Members of such an Advisory Board who are not regular full-time employees of the United States shall be entitled to reimbursement on an actual expense basis for attendance at Advisory Board meetings.
 Consultation with Secretary of the Interior; conformity of program with wetlands programs administered by Secretary of the Interior; consultation with and utilization of technical services of appropriate local, State, Federal, and private conservation agencies; coordination of programs
The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of the Interior and take appropriate measures to insure that the program carried out pursuant to this chapter is in harmony with wetlands programs administered by the Secretary of the Interior. He shall also, insofar as practicable, consult with and utilize the technical and related services of appropriate local, State, Federal, and private conservation agencies to assure coordination of the program with programs of such agencies and a solid technical foundation for the program.
 Authorization of appropriations; maximum amount of payments pursuant to agreements
There are hereby authorized to be appropriated without fiscal year limitation, such sums as may be necessary to carry out the program authorized by this chapter. In carrying out the program, in each fiscal year through the fiscal year ending 
 Rules and regulations
The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as he determines necessary and desirable to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
