
Chapter 35
UNITED STATES ATTORNEYS
 United States attorneys
(a)
 The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, a United States attorney for each judicial district.


(b)
 Each United States attorney shall be appointed for a term of four years. On the expiration of his term, a United States attorney shall continue to perform the duties of his office until his successor is appointed and qualifies.


(c)
 Each United States attorney is subject to removal by the President.


 Assistant United States attorneys
(a)
 The Attorney General may appoint one or more assistant United States attorneys in any district when the public interest so requires.


(b)
 Each assistant United States attorney is subject to removal by the Attorney General.


 Special attorneys
(a)
 The Attorney General may appoint attorneys to assist United States attorneys when the public interest so requires, including the appointment of qualified tribal prosecutors and other qualified attorneys to assist in prosecuting Federal offenses committed in Indian country.


(b)
 Each attorney appointed under this section is subject to removal by the Attorney General.


(c)
 
Indian Country
.—
In this section, the term “Indian country” has the meaning given that term in 
section 1151 of title 18
.


 Oath of office
Each United States attorney, assistant United States attorney, and attorney appointed under 
 Residence
(a)
 Each United States attorney shall reside in the district for which he is appointed, except that these officers of the District of Columbia, the Southern District of New York, and the Eastern District of New York may reside within 20 miles thereof. Each assistant United States attorney shall reside in the district for which he or she is appointed or within 25 miles thereof. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any United States attorney or assistant United States attorney appointed for the Northern Mariana Islands who at the same time is serving in the same capacity in another district. Pursuant to an order from the Attorney General or his designee, a United States attorney or an assistant United States attorney may be assigned dual or additional responsibilities that exempt such officer from the residency requirement in this subsection for a specific period as established by the order and subject to renewal.


(b)
 The Attorney General may determine the official stations of United States attorneys and assistant United States attorneys within the districts for which they are appointed.


 Vacancies
(a)
 Except as provided in subsection (b), the Attorney General may appoint a United States attorney for the district in which the office of United States attorney is vacant.


(b)
 The Attorney General shall not appoint as United States attorney a person to whose appointment by the President to that office the Senate refused to give advice and consent.


(c)
 A person appointed as United States attorney under this section may serve until the earlier of—
(1)
 the qualification of a United States attorney for such district appointed by the President under 
section 541 of this title
; or




(2)
 the expiration of 120 days after appointment by the Attorney General under this section.




(d)
 If an appointment expires under subsection (c)(2), the district court for such district may appoint a United States attorney to serve until the vacancy is filled. The order of appointment by the court shall be filed with the clerk of the court.


“(a)
 
In General
.—
The amendments made by this Act [amending this section] shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act [
June 14, 2007
].


“(b)
 Application.—
“(1)
 
In general
.—
Any person serving as a United States attorney on the day before the date of enactment of this Act [
June 14, 2007
] who was appointed under 
section 546 of title 28
, United States Code, may serve until the earlier of—
“(A)
 the qualification of a United States attorney for such district appointed by the President under section 541 of that title; or




“(B)
 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act.






“(2)
 
Expired appointments
.—
If an appointment expires under paragraph (1), the district court for that district may appoint a United States attorney for that district under 
section 546(d) of title 28
, United States Code, as added by this Act.”




 Duties
 Salaries
Subject to sections 5315 through 5317 of title 5, the Attorney General shall fix the annual salaries of United States attorneys, assistant United States attorneys, and attorneys appointed under 
 Expenses
Necessary office expenses of United States attorneys shall be allowed when authorized by the Attorney General.
 Clerical assistants, messengers, and private process servers
The United States attorneys may employ clerical assistants, messengers, and private process servers on approval of the Attorney General.
