
Chapter 603
USER FEES
 User fees
(a)
 
Schedule of Fees
.—
The Secretary of Transportation shall prescribe a schedule of fees for all natural gas and hazardous liquids transported by pipelines subject to chapter 601 of this title. The fees shall be based on usage (in reasonable relationship to volume-miles, miles, revenues, or a combination of volume-miles, miles, and revenues) of the pipelines. The Secretary shall consider the allocation of resources of the Department of Transportation when establishing the schedule.


(b)
 
Imposition and Time of Collection
.—
A fee shall be imposed on each person operating a gas pipeline transmission facility, a liquefied natural gas pipeline facility, or a hazardous liquid pipeline facility to which chapter 601 of this title applies. The fee shall be collected before the end of the fiscal year to which it applies.


(c)
 
Means of Collection
.—
The Secretary shall prescribe procedures to collect fees under this section. The Secretary may use a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government or of a State or local government to collect the fee and may reimburse the department, agency, or instrumentality a reasonable amount for its services.


(d)
 
Use of Fees
.—
A fee collected under this section—
(1)
(A)
 related to a gas pipeline facility may be used only for an activity related to gas under chapter 601 of this title; and




(B)
 related to a hazardous liquid pipeline facility may be used only for an activity related to hazardous liquid under chapter 601 of this title; and






(2)
 may be used only to the extent provided in advance in an appropriation law.




(e)
 
Limitations
.—
Fees prescribed under subsection (a) of this section shall be sufficient to pay for the costs of activities described in subsection (d) of this section. However, the total amount collected for a fiscal year may not be more than 105 percent of the total amount of the appropriations made for the fiscal year for activities to be financed by the fees.


“(a)
 
In General
.—
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [
Oct. 12, 1996
], the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress a report analyzing the present assessment of pipeline safety user fees solely on the basis of mileage to determine whether—
“(1)
 that measure of the resources of the Department of Transportation is the most appropriate measure of the resources used by the Department of Transportation in the regulation of pipeline transportation; or




“(2)
 another basis of assessment would be a more appropriate measure of those resources.




“(b)
 
Considerations
.—
In making the report, the Secretary shall consider a wide range of assessment factors and suggestions and comments from the public.”


