
Chapter 48
HUMANE METHODS OF LIVESTOCK SLAUGHTER
 Findings and declaration of policy
The Congress finds that the use of humane methods in the slaughter of livestock prevents needless suffering; results in safer and better working conditions for persons engaged in the slaughtering industry; brings about improvement of products and economies in slaughtering operations; and produces other benefits for producers, processors, and consumers which tend to expedite an orderly flow of livestock and livestock products in interstate and foreign commerce. It is therefore declared to be the policy of the United States that the slaughtering of livestock and the handling of livestock in connection with slaughter shall be carried out only by humane methods.
“(a)
 
Sense of Congress
.—
It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Agriculture should—
“(1)
 continue tracking the number of violations of 
Public Law 85–765
 (
7 U.S.C. 1901
 et seq.; commonly known as the ‘Humane Methods of Slaughter Act of 1958’) and report the results and relevant trends annually to Congress; and




“(2)
 fully enforce 
Public Law 85–765
 by ensuring that humane methods in the slaughter of livestock—
“(A)
 prevent needless suffering;




“(B)
 result in safer and better working conditions for persons engaged in slaughtering operations;




“(C)
 bring about improvement of products and economies in slaughtering operations; and




“(D)
 produce other benefits for producers, processors, and consumers that tend to expedite an orderly flow of livestock and livestock products in interstate and foreign commerce.






“(b)
 
United States Policy
.—
It is the policy of the United States that the slaughtering of livestock and the handling of livestock in connection with slaughter shall be carried out only by humane methods, as provided by 
Public Law 85–765
.”


“(a)
 
In General
.—
Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Agriculture may issue guidelines for the regulation of the commercial transportation of equine for slaughter by persons regularly engaged in that activity within the United States.


“(b)
 
Issues for Review
.—
In carrying out this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall review the food, water, and rest provided to equine for slaughter in transit, the segregation of stallions from other equine during transit, and such other issues as the Secretary considers appropriate.


“(c)
 
Additional Authority
.—
In carrying out this section, the Secretary of Agriculture may—
“(1)
 require any person to maintain such records and reports as the Secretary considers necessary;




“(2)
 conduct such investigations and inspections as the Secretary considers necessary; and




“(3)
 establish and enforce appropriate and effective civil penalties.




 Humane methods
(a)
 in the case of cattle, calves, horses, mules, sheep, swine, and other livestock, all animals are rendered insensible to pain by a single blow or gunshot or an electrical, chemical or other means that is rapid and effective, before being shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast, or cut; or


(b)
 by slaughtering in accordance with the ritual requirements of the Jewish faith or any other religious faith that prescribes a method of slaughter whereby the animal suffers loss of consciousness by anemia of the brain caused by the simultaneous and instantaneous severance of the carotid arteries with a sharp instrument and handling in connection with such slaughtering.


 Repealed. 
 Methods research; designation of methods
(a)
 to conduct, assist, and foster research, investigation, and experimentation to develop and determine methods of slaughter and the handling of livestock in connection with slaughter which are practicable with reference to the speed and scope of slaughtering operations and humane with reference to other existing methods and then current scientific knowledge; and


(b)
 on or before 
March 1, 1959
, and at such times thereafter as he deems advisable, to designate methods of slaughter and of handling in connection with slaughter which, with respect to each species of livestock, conform to the policy stated in this chapter. If he deems it more effective, the Secretary may make any such designation by designating methods which are not in conformity with such policy. Designations by the Secretary subsequent to 
March 1, 1959
, shall become effective 180 days after their publication in the Federal Register.


 Repealed. 
 Exemption of ritual slaughter
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit, abridge, or in any way hinder the religious freedom of any person or group. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, in order to protect freedom of religion, ritual slaughter and the handling or other preparation of livestock for ritual slaughter are exempted from the terms of this chapter. For the purposes of this section the term “ritual slaughter” means slaughter in accordance with 
 Practices involving nonambulatory livestock
(a)
 Report
The Secretary of Agriculture shall investigate and submit to Congress a report on—
(1)
 the scope of nonambulatory livestock;




(2)
 the causes that render livestock nonambulatory;




(3)
 the humane treatment of nonambulatory livestock; and




(4)
 the extent to which nonambulatory livestock may present handling and disposition problems for stockyards, market agencies, and dealers.




(b)
 Authority
Based on the findings of the report, if the Secretary determines it necessary, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations to provide for the humane treatment, handling, and disposition of nonambulatory livestock by stockyards, market agencies, and dealers.




(c)
 Administration and enforcement
For the purpose of administering and enforcing any regulations promulgated under subsection (b) of this section, the authorities provided under sections 10414 [
7 U.S.C. 8313
] and 10415 [
7 U.S.C. 8314
] shall apply to the regulations in a similar manner as those sections apply to the Animal Health Protection Act [
7 U.S.C. 8301
 et seq.]. Any person that violates regulations promulgated under subsection (b) of this section shall be subject to penalties provided in section 10414.




