
Chapter 11
HONEYBEES
 Honeybee importation
(a)
 In general
The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to prohibit or restrict the importation or entry of honeybees and honeybee semen into or through the United States in order to prevent the introduction and spread of diseases and parasites harmful to honeybees, the introduction of genetically undesirable germ plasm of honeybees, or the introduction and spread of undesirable species or subspecies of honeybees and the semen of honeybees.




(b)
 Regulations
The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Treasury are each authorized to prescribe such regulations as the respective Secretary determines necessary to carry out this section.




(c)
 Enforcement
Honeybees or honeybee semen offered for importation into, intercepted entering, or having entered the United States, other than in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be destroyed or immediately exported.




(d)
 “Honeybee” defined
As used in this chapter, the term “honeybee” means all life stages and the germ plasm of honeybees of the genus Apis, except honeybee semen.




 Punishment for unlawful importation
Any person who violates any provision of 
 Propagation of stock and release of germ plasm
The Secretary of Agriculture may propagate bee-breeding stock and may release bee germ plasm to the public.
 Eradication and control of undesirable species and subspecies
(a)
 Operations in United States
The Secretary of Agriculture either independently or in cooperation with States or political subdivisions thereof, farmers’ associations, and similar organizations and individuals, is authorized to carry out operations or measures in the United States to eradicate, suppress, control, and to prevent or retard the spread of undesirable species and subspecies of honeybees.




(b)
 Cooperation with certain foreign governments; measure and character; consultation with Secretary of State
The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to cooperate with the Governments of Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia, or the local authorities thereof, in carrying out necessary research, surveys, and control operations in those countries in connection with the eradication, suppression, control, and prevention or retardation of the spread of undesirable species and subspecies of honeybees, including but not limited to Apis mellifera adansonii, commonly known as the African or Brazilian honeybee. The measure and character of cooperation carried out under this subsection on the part of such countries, including the expenditure or use of funds appropriated pursuant to this chapter, shall be such as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture. Arrangements for the cooperation authorized by this subsection shall be made through and in consultation with the Secretary of State.




(c)
 Responsibility for authority to carry out operations
In performing the operations or measures authorized in this chapter, the cooperating foreign country, State, or local agency shall be responsible for the authority to carry out such operations or measures on all lands and properties within the foreign country or State, other than those owned or controlled by the Federal Government of the United States, and for such other facilities and means as in the discretion of the Secretary of Agriculture are necessary.




“(a)
 The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to make indemnity payments to beekeepers who through no fault of their own have suffered losses of honey bees after 
January 1, 1967
, as a result of utilization of economic poisons near or adjacent to the property on which the beehives of such beekeepers were located.


“(b)
 The amount of the indemnity payment in the case of any beekeeper shall be determined on the basis of the net loss sustained by such beekeeper as a result of the loss of his honey bees.


“(c)
 Indemnity payments shall be made only in cases in which the loss occurred as a result of the use of economic poisons which had been registered and approved for use by the Federal Government.


“(d)
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act.


“(e)
 The Secretary is authorized to issue such regulations as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.


“(f)
 The provisions of this section shall not be in effect after 
September 30, 1981
.”


 Uses of funds
Funds appropriated to carry out the provisions of this chapter may also be used for printing and binding without regard to 
 Authorization of appropriations
There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
