
Chapter 74
FLORAL RESEARCH AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
 Congressional findings and declaration of policy
Flowers and plants are an integral part of American life, contributing a natural and beautiful element, especially in urban areas, to what is increasingly a manmade, artificial environment for this country’s citizens. Providing comfort and pleasure for many special occasions as well as for everyday living, flowers and plants work against visual pollution and, in the case of green plants, generate oxygen within their environment. The flowers and plants to which this chapter refers are cut flowers, potted flowering plants, and foliage plants. These flowers and plants are produced by many individual producers throughout the United States and in foreign countries. These products move in interstate and foreign commerce, and those that do not move in such channels of commerce directly burden or affect interstate commerce of these products. The maintenance and expansion of existing markets and the development of new or improved markets and uses are vital to the welfare of flower and plant producers, brokers, wholesalers, and retailers throughout the Nation. The floral industry within the United States is comprised mainly of small- and medium-sized businesses. The producers are primarily agriculturally-oriented companies rather than promotion-oriented companies. The development and implementation of coordinated programs of research and promotion necessary for the maintenance of markets and the development of new markets have been inadequate. Without cooperative action in providing for and financing such programs, individual flower and plant producers, wholesalers, and retailers are unable to implement programs of research, consumer and producer information, and promotion necessary to maintain and improve markets for these products. It is widely recognized that it is in the public interest to provide an adequate, steady supply of fresh flowers and plants to the consumers of the Nation. The American consumer requires a continuing supply of quality and affordable flowers and plants as an important element in the quality of life. It is, therefore, declared to be the policy of Congress and the purpose of this chapter that it is essential and in the public interest to authorize the establishment of an orderly procedure for the development and financing, through an adequate assessment, of an effective and coordinated program of research, consumer and producer education, and promotion designed to strengthen the floral industry’s position in the marketplace and maintain, develop, and expand markets for flowers, plants, and flowering plants. Nothing in this chapter may be construed to dictate quality standards or provide for control of production or otherwise limit the right of individual flower and plant producers to produce commercial flowers and plants. Nothing in this chapter may be construed as a trade barrier to flowers and plants produced in foreign countries, and this chapter treats foreign producers equitably.
 Definitions
 Floral research and promotion orders
To effectuate the declared policy of this chapter, the Secretary shall, subject to the provisions of this chapter, issue and, from time to time, may amend orders applicable to persons engaged in production, sale, importation, or handling of flowers and plants. Such orders shall be applicable to all production or marketing areas, or both, in the United States.
 Notice and hearing
Whenever the Secretary has reason to believe that the issuance of an order will tend to effectuate the declared policy of this chapter, the Secretary shall give due notice and opportunity for hearing upon a proposed order. Such hearing may be requested and a proposal for an order submitted by an organization certified pursuant to section 4315 of this chapter, or by any interested person affected by the provisions of this chapter, including the Secretary.
 Finding and issuance of orders
After notice and opportunity for hearing as provided in 
 Required terms in orders
 Permissive terms in orders
 Referendum; necessity, etc.
(a)
 The Secretary shall conduct a referendum among domestic producers and importers not exempt under 
section 4311 of this title
 who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of flowers and plants, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the issuance of an order is approved or favored by such domestic producers and importers. No order issued pursuant to this chapter shall be effective unless the Secretary determines that the issuance of such order is approved or favored by not less than two-thirds of the producers and importers voting in such referendum, or by a majority of the producers and importers voting in such referendum if such majority produced and imported not less than two-thirds of the total value of the flowers and plants produced and imported by those producers and importers voting in such referendum during a representative period defined by the Secretary.


(b)
 The Secretary shall be reimbursed from assessments for all costs incurred by the Government in connection with the conduct of the referendum, except for the salaries of Government employees.


 Suspension and termination of orders
(a)
 Prerequisites
Whenever the Secretary finds that any order issued under this chapter, or any provisions thereof, obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of this chapter, the Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of such order or such provisions thereof.




(b)
 Referendum
The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time, and shall hold a referendum on request of 10 per centum or more of the number of producers and importers voting in the referendum approving the order, to determine whether such producers and importers favor the termination or suspension of the order, and shall suspend or terminate such order six months after the Secretary determines that suspension or termination of the order is approved or favored by a majority of the producers and importers voting in such referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of flowers and plants.




(c)
 Nature of order
The termination or suspension of any order, or any provision thereof, shall not be considered an order within the meaning of this chapter.




 Amendments to orders
The provisions of this chapter applicable to orders shall be applicable to amendments to orders.
 Exemption from assessments
Any producer or importer whose total sales of flowers and plants do not exceed $100,000 during a twelve consecutive month period prior to the date an assessment is due and payable shall be exempt from assessments under this chapter under such conditions and procedures as may be prescribed in the order or rules and regulations issued thereunder and shall not vote in any referendum under this chapter: 
 Refund of assessments
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any producer or importer who pays an assessment shall have the right to demand and receive from the Floraboard a refund of such assessment: 
 Administrative and judicial review; procedures applicable
(a)
 Any person subject to any order may file a written petition with the Secretary, stating that any such order or any provisions of such order or any obligations imposed in connection therewith is not in accordance with law and praying for a modification thereof or to be exempted therefrom. Such person shall thereupon be given an opportunity for a hearing upon such petition, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. After such hearing, the Secretary shall make a ruling upon the prayer of such petition which shall be final if in accordance with law.


(b)
 The district courts of the United States in any district in which such person is an inhabitant, or carries on business, are hereby vested with jurisdiction to review such ruling, provided a complaint for that purpose is filed within twenty days from the date of the entry of such ruling. Service of process in such proceedings may be had upon the Secretary by delivering to the Secretary a copy of the complaint. If the court determines that such ruling is not in accordance with law, it shall remand such proceedings to the Secretary with directions either (1) to make such ruling as the court shall determine to be in accordance with law, or (2) to take such further proceedings as, in its opinion, the law requires. The pendency of proceedings instituted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall not impede, hinder, or delay the United States or the Secretary from obtaining relief pursuant to 
section 4314(a) of this title
.


 Enforcement of provisions
(a)
 The several district courts of the United States are vested with jurisdiction specifically to enforce, and to prevent and restrain any person from violating, any order or regulation made or issued pursuant to this chapter. Any civil action authorized to be brought under this subsection shall be referred to the Attorney General for appropriate action: 
Provided
, That nothing in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the Secretary to refer to the Attorney General violations of this chapter whenever the Secretary believes that the administration and enforcement of the program would be adequately served by administrative action pursuant to subsection (b) of this section or suitable written notice or warning to any person committing such violations.


(b)
(1)
 Any person who violates any provisions of any order or regulation issued by the Secretary pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or refuses to pay, collect, or remit any assessment or fee duly required thereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not less than $500 or more than $5,000 for each such violation. Each violation shall be a separate offense. In addition to or in lieu of such civil penalty the Secretary may issue an order requiring such person to cease and desist from continuing such violation or violations. No penalty may be assessed or cease and desist order issued unless such person is given notice and opportunity for a hearing before the Secretary with respect to such violation. The order of the Secretary assessing a penalty or imposing a cease and desist order shall be final and conclusive unless the affected person files an appeal from the Secretary’s order with the appropriate United States court of appeals.




(2)
 Any person against whom a violation is found and a civil penalty assessed or cease and desist order issued under paragraph (1) of this subsection may obtain review in the court of appeals of the United States for the circuit in which such person resides or carries on business or in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit by filing a notice of appeal in such court within thirty days from the date of such order and by simultaneously sending a copy of such notice by certified mail to the Secretary. The Secretary shall promptly file in such court a certified copy of the record upon which such violation was found. The findings of the Secretary shall be set aside only if found to be unsupported by substantial evidence.




(3)
 Any person who fails to obey a cease and desist order after it has become final and unappealable, or after the appropriate court of appeals has entered final judgment in favor of the Secretary, shall be subject to a civil penalty assessed by the Secretary, after opportunity for a hearing and for judicial review pursuant to the procedures specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, of not more than $500 for each offense, and each day during which such failure continues shall be deemed a separate offense.




(4)
 If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty after it has become a final and unappealable order, or after the appropriate court of appeals has entered final judgment in favor of the Secretary, the Secretary shall refer the matter to the Attorney General who shall recover the amount assessed in any appropriate district court of the United States. In such action, the validity and appropriateness of the final order imposing the civil penalty shall not be subject to review.




 Certification of organizations; applicable criteria and considerations
 Regulations
The Secretary may issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
 Investigations; subpena powers, etc.; enforcement
The Secretary may make such investigations as are deemed necessary to carry out the Secretary’s responsibilities under this chapter or to determine whether a producer, importer, wholesaler, retailer, or other seller of flowers and plants, or any other person has engaged or is about to engage in any acts or practices which constitute or will constitute a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any order, or rule or regulation issued under this chapter. For the purpose of such investigation, the Secretary is empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books, papers, and documents which are relevant to the inquiry. Such attendance of witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any place in the United States. In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpena to, any person, including a producer of flowers and plants, the Secretary may invoke the aid of any court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and documents; and such court may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Secretary, there to produce records, if so ordered, or to give testimony touching the matter under investigation. Any failure to obey such order of the court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All processes in any such cases may be served in the judicial district wherein such person is an inhabitant or wherever such person may be found.
 Separability
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this chapter and of the application of such provision to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
 Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated such funds as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. The funds so appropriated shall not be available for payment of the expenses or expenditures of the Floraboard in administering any provisions of any order issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
