
Chapter 303
DEATH ON THE HIGH SEAS
 Short title
This chapter may be cited as the “Death on the High Seas Act”.
 Cause of action
When the death of an individual is caused by wrongful act, neglect, or default occurring on the high seas beyond 3 nautical miles from the shore of the United States, the personal representative of the decedent may bring a civil action in admiralty against the person or vessel responsible. The action shall be for the exclusive benefit of the decedent’s spouse, parent, child, or dependent relative.
 Amount and apportionment of recovery
The recovery in an action under this chapter shall be a fair compensation for the pecuniary loss sustained by the individuals for whose benefit the action is brought. The court shall apportion the recovery among those individuals in proportion to the loss each has sustained.
 Contributory negligence
In an action under this chapter, contributory negligence of the decedent is not a bar to recovery. The court shall consider the degree of negligence of the decedent and reduce the recovery accordingly.
 Death of plaintiff in pending action
If a civil action in admiralty is pending in a court of the United States to recover for personal injury caused by wrongful act, neglect, or default described in 
 Foreign cause of action
When a cause of action exists under the law of a foreign country for death by wrongful act, neglect, or default on the high seas, a civil action in admiralty may be brought in a court of the United States based on the foreign cause of action, without abatement of the amount for which recovery is authorized.
 Commercial aviation accidents
(a)
 
Definition
.—
In this section, the term “nonpecuniary damages” means damages for loss of care, comfort, and companionship.


(b)
 
Beyond
 12 
Nautical Miles
.—
In an action under this chapter, if the death resulted from a commercial aviation accident occurring on the high seas beyond 12 nautical miles from the shore of the United States, additional compensation is recoverable for nonpecuniary damages, but punitive damages are not recoverable.


(c)
 
Within
 12 
Nautical Miles
.—
This chapter does not apply if the death resulted from a commercial aviation accident occurring on the high seas 12 nautical miles or less from the shore of the United States.


 Nonapplication
(a)
 
State Law
.—
This chapter does not affect the law of a State regulating the right to recover for death.


(b)
 
Internal Waters
.—
This chapter does not apply to the Great Lakes or waters within the territorial limits of a State.


