
Chapter 1
DEFINITIONS
 Agency
In this title, the term “agency” means a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government.
 Barge
In this title, the term “barge” means a non-self-propelled vessel.
 Boundary Line
In this title, the term “Boundary Line” means a line established under 
 Citizen of the United States
In this title, the term “citizen of the United States”, when used in reference to a natural person, means an individual who is a national of the United States as defined in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (
 Consular officer
In this title, the term “consular officer” means an officer or employee of the United States Government designated under regulations to issue visas.
 Documented vessel
In this title, the term “documented vessel” means a vessel for which a certificate of documentation has been issued under chapter 121 of this title.
 Exclusive economic zone
In this title, the term “exclusive economic zone” means the zone established by Presidential Proclamation 5030 of 
 Fisheries
In this title, the term “fisheries” includes processing, storing, transporting (except in foreign commerce), planting, cultivating, catching, taking, or harvesting fish, shellfish, marine animals, pearls, shells, or marine vegetation in the navigable waters of the United States or in the exclusive economic zone.
 Foreign commerce or trade
(a)
 
In General
.—
In this title, the terms “foreign commerce” and “foreign trade” mean commerce or trade between a place in the United States and a place in a foreign country.


(b)
 
Capital Construction Funds and Construction-Differential Subsidies
.—
In the context of capital construction funds under chapter 535 of this title, and in the context of construction-differential subsidies under title V of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, the terms “foreign commerce” and “foreign trade” also include, in the case of liquid and dry bulk cargo carrying services, trading between foreign ports in accordance with normal commercial bulk shipping practices in a manner that will permit bulk vessels of the United States to compete freely with foreign bulk vessels in their operation or competition for charters, subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Transportation.


 Foreign vessel
In this title, the term “foreign vessel” means a vessel of foreign registry or operated under the authority of a foreign country.
 Numbered vessel
In this title, the term “numbered vessel” means a vessel for which a number has been issued under chapter 123 of this title.
 State
In this title, the term “State” means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
 Undocumented
In this title, the term “undocumented” means not having and not required to have a certificate of documentation issued under chapter 121 of this title.
 United States
In this title, the term “United States”, when used in a geographic sense, means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
 Vessel
In this title, the term “vessel” has the meaning given that term in 
 Vessel of the United States
In this title, the term “vessel of the United States” means a vessel documented under chapter 121 of this title (or exempt from documentation under 
