
Chapter 31
GENERAL
 Authority to suspend inspection
When the President decides that the needs of foreign commerce require, the President may suspend a provision of this part for a foreign-built vessel registered as a vessel of the United States on conditions the President may specify.
 Immersion suits
(a)
 The Secretary shall by regulation require immersion suits on vessels designated by the Secretary that operate in the Atlantic Ocean north of 32 degrees North latitude or south of 32 degrees South latitude and in all other waters north of 35 degrees North latitude or south of 35 degrees South latitude. The Secretary may not exclude a vessel from designation under this section only because that vessel carries other lifesaving equipment.


(b)
 The Secretary shall establish standards for an immersion suit required by this section, including standards to guarantee adequate thermal protection, buoyance, and flotation stability.


(c)
(1)
 The owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, master, or individual in charge of a vessel violating this section or a regulation prescribed under this section is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000. The vessel also is liable in rem for the penalty.




(2)
 The owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, master, or individual in charge of a vessel violating this section or a regulation prescribed under this section may be fined not more than $25,000, imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both.




“(b)
 
Section 3102 of title 46
, United States Code (as added by subsection (a) of this section), does not limit the authority of the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating to prescribe regulations requiring exposure suits on vessels not required by section 3102 to have exposure suits.


“(c)
 The regulations prescribed under 
section 3102 of title 46
, United States Code (as added by subsection (a) of this section), shall be effective not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this title [
Nov. 8, 1984
].”


 Use of reports, documents, and records
 Survival craft
(a)
 Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary may not approve a survival craft as a safety device for purposes of this part, unless the craft ensures that no part of an individual is immersed in water.


(b)
 The Secretary may authorize a survival craft that does not provide protection described in subsection (a) to remain in service until not later than the date that is 30 months after the date on which the report described in subsection (c) is submitted, if—
(1)
 it was approved by the Secretary before 
January 1, 2010
; and




(2)
 it is in serviceable condition.




(c)
 
Report
.—
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the carriage of survival craft that ensures no part of an individual is immersed in water, which shall include—
(1)
 the number of casualties, by vessel type and area of operation, as the result of immersion in water reported to the Coast Guard for each of fiscal years 1991 through 2011;




(2)
 the effect the carriage of such survival craft has on—
(A)
 vessel safety, including stability and safe navigation; and




(B)
 survivability of individuals, including persons with disabilities, children, and the elderly;






(3)
 the efficacy of alternative safety systems, devices, or measures;




(4)
 the cost and cost effectiveness of requiring the carriage of such survival craft on vessels; and




(5)
 the number of small businesses and nonprofit entities that would be affected by requiring the carriage of such survival craft on vessels.




