
Chapter 113
OFFICIAL LOGBOOKS
 Logbook and entry requirements
(a)
 Except a vessel on a voyage from a port in the United States to a port in Canada, a vessel of the United States shall have an official logbook if the vessel is—
(1)
 on a voyage from a port in the United States to a foreign port; or




(2)
 of at least 100 gross tons as measured under 
section 14502 of this title
, or an alternate tonnage measured under 
section 14302 of this title
 as prescribed by the Secretary under 
section 14104 of this title
 and is on a voyage between a port of the United States on the Atlantic Ocean and on the Pacific Ocean.




(b)
 The master of the vessel shall make or have made in the official logbook the following entries:
(1)
 each legal conviction of a seaman of the vessel and the punishment inflicted.




(2)
 each offense committed by a seaman of the vessel for which it is intended to prosecute or to enforce under a forfeiture, together with statements about reading the entry and the reply made to the charge as required by 
section 11502 of this title
.




(3)
 each offense for which punishment is inflicted on board and the punishment inflicted.




(4)
 a statement of the conduct, character, and qualifications of each seaman of the vessel or a statement that the master declines to give an opinion about that conduct, character, and qualifications.




(5)
 each illness of or injury to a seaman of the vessel, the nature of the illness or injury, and the medical treatment.




(6)
 each death on board, with the cause of death, and if a seaman, the information required by 
section 10702 of this title
.




(7)
 each birth on board, with the sex of the infant and name of the parents.




(8)
 each marriage on board, with the names and ages of the parties.




(9)
 the name of each seaman who ceases to be a crewmember (except by death), with the place, time, manner, and the cause why the seaman ceased to be a crewmember.




(10)
 the wages due to a seaman who dies during the voyage and the gross amount of all deductions to be made from the wages.




(11)
 the sale of the property of a seaman who dies during the voyage, including a statement of each article sold and the amount received for the property.




(12)
 when a marine casualty occurs, a statement about the casualty and the circumstances under which it occurred, made immediately after the casualty when practicable to do so.




 Manner of making entries
 Penalties
(a)
 A master failing to maintain an official logbook as required by this part is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of $200.


(b)
 A master failing to make an entry in the vessel’s official logbook as required by this part is liable to the Government for a civil penalty of $200.


(c)
 A person is liable to the Government for a civil penalty of $150 when the person makes, procures to be made, or assists in making, an entry in the vessel’s official logbook—
(1)
 later than 24 hours after the vessel’s arrival at the final port of discharge; and




(2)
 that is about an occurrence that happened before that arrival.




 Additional logbook and entry requirements
(a)
 A vessel of the United States that is subject to inspection under 
section 3301 of this title
, except a vessel on a voyage from a port in the United States to a port in Canada, shall have an official logbook, which shall be kept available for review by the Secretary on request.


(b)
 The log book required by subsection (a) shall include the following entries:
(1)
 The time when each seaman and each officer assumed or relieved the watch.




(2)
 The number of hours in service to the vessels of each seaman and each officer.




(3)
 An account of each accident, illness, and injury that occurs during each watch.




