
Chapter 12
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
 Establishment of Department; Secretary; seal
There shall be an executive department in the Government to be called the Department of Labor, with a Secretary of Labor, who shall be the head thereof, to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and whose tenure of office shall be like that of the heads of the other executive departments. The provisions of title 4 of the Revised Statutes, including all amendments thereto, shall be applicable to said department. The purpose of the Department of Labor shall be to foster, promote, and develop the welfare of the wage earners of the United States, to improve their working conditions, and to advance their opportunities for profitable employment. The said Secretary shall cause a seal of office to be made for the said department of such device as the President shall approve and judicial notice shall be taken of the said seal.
 Deputy Secretary; appointment; duties
There is established in the Department of Labor the office of Deputy Secretary of Labor, which shall be filled by appointment by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Deputy Secretary shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Labor or required by law. The Deputy Secretary shall (1) in case of the death, resignation, or removal from office of the Secretary, perform the duties of the Secretary until a successor is appointed, and (2) in case of the absence or sickness of the Secretary, perform the duties of the Secretary until such absence or sickness shall terminate.
 Assistant Secretaries; appointment; duties
There are established in the Department of Labor nine offices of Assistant Secretary of Labor, which shall be filled by appointment by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Each of the Assistant Secretaries of Labor shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Labor or required by law. One of such Assistant Secretaries shall be an Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health.
 Assistants to Secretary
There shall be in the Department of Labor not more than two assistants to the Secretary, who shall be appointed by the President and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Labor or required by law.
 Solicitor
There shall be a solicitor for the Department of Labor.
 Chief clerk; other employees
There shall be in said department a chief clerk and such other clerical assistants, inspectors, and special agents as may from time to time be provided for by Congress.
 Bureaus and offices in Department
The following-named offices, bureaus, divisions, and branches of the public service, and all that pertains to the same, shall be under the jurisdiction and supervision of the Department of Labor:
 Mine Safety and Health Administration
There is established in the Department of Labor a Mine Safety and Health Administration to be headed by an Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health, shall have authority to appoint, subject to the civil service laws, such officers and employees as he may deem necessary for the administration of this Act, and to prescribe powers, duties, and responsibilities of all officers and employees engaged in the administration of this Act. The Secretary is authorized and directed, except as specifically provided otherwise to carry out his functions under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 [
 Office of disability employment policy
 Beginning in fiscal year 2001, there is established in the Department of Labor an office of disability employment policy which shall, under the overall direction of the Secretary, provide leadership, develop policy and initiatives, and award grants furthering the objective of eliminating barriers to the training and employment of people with disabilities. Such office shall be headed by an Assistant Secretary.
 Library, records, etc., of Department
The Secretary of Labor shall have charge in the buildings or premises occupied by or appropriated to the Department of Labor, of the library, furniture, fixtures, records, and other property pertaining to it or acquired for use in its business. He shall be allowed to expend for periodicals and the purposes of the library and for rental of appropriate quarters for the accommodation of the Department of Labor within the District of Columbia, and for all other incidental expenses, such sums as Congress may provide from time to time.
 Rented quarters
Where any office, bureau, or branch of the public service transferred to the Department of Labor by this Act is occupying rented buildings or premises, it may continue to do so until other suitable quarters are provided for its use.
 Reports and investigations
The Secretary of Labor shall annually, at the close of each fiscal year, prepare and submit to Congress the financial statements of the Department that have been audited. He shall also, from time to time, make such special investigations and reports as he may be required to do by the President, or by Congress, or which he himself may deem necessary.
 Records and papers and furniture transferred to Department
The official records and papers on file in and pertaining exclusively to the business of any bureau, office, department, or branch of the public service in this Act transferred to the Department of Labor, together with the furniture in use in such bureau, office, department, or branch of the public service, are transferred to the Department of Labor.
 Laws operative
All laws prescribing the work and defining the duties of the several bureaus, offices, departments, or branches of the public service by this Act transferred to and made a part of the Department of Labor shall, so far as the same are not in conflict with the provisions of this Act, remain in full force and effect, to be executed under the direction of the Secretary of Labor.
 Working capital fund; establishment; availability; capitalization; reimbursement
There is established a working capital fund, to be available without fiscal year limitation, for expenses necessary for the maintenance and operation of (1) a central reproduction service; (2) a central visual exhibit service; (3) a central supply service for supplies and equipment for which adequate stocks may be maintained to meet in whole or in part the requirements of the Department; (4) a central tabulating service; (5) telephone, mail and messenger services; (6) a central accounting and payroll service; and (7) a central laborers’ service: 
 Working capital fund; comprehensive program of centralized services
There is appropriated for expenses necessary during the fiscal year ending 
 Working capital fund; availability for personnel functions in regional administrative offices
The Working Capital Fund of the Department of Labor shall be available on and after 
 Repealed. 
 Employee drug and alcohol abuse assistance programs
(a)
 Establishment
The Secretary of Labor shall establish a program through which the Secretary shall provide grants to, or enter into contracts with, employers to enable such employers to develop employee drug and alcohol abuse assistance programs.




(b)
 Applications
Employers desiring to receive a grant or contract under this section shall submit to the Secretary of Labor, an application, in such form and containing such information as the Secretary may require.




(c)
 Regulations
The Secretary of Labor shall promulgate regulations necessary to carry out this section.




(d)
 Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $4,000,000 for fiscal year 1989, and $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1990 and 1991.




 Labor-management dispute settlement expenses
Appropriations in this Act or subsequent Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts available for salaries and expenses shall be available for supplies, services, and rental of conference space within the District of Columbia, as the Secretary of Labor shall deem necessary for settlement of labor-management disputes.
 Acceptance of donations by Secretary
The Secretary of Labor is authorized to accept, in the name of the Department of Labor, and employ or dispose of in furtherance of authorized activities of the Department of Labor, during the fiscal year ending 
