
Chapter 405
BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH IN SPACE
 Biomedical research joint working group
(a)
 
Establishment
.—
The Administrator and the Director of the National Institutes of Health shall jointly establish a working group to coordinate biomedical research activities in areas where a microgravity environment may contribute to significant progress in the understanding and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions. The joint working group shall formulate joint and complementary programs in such areas of research.


(b)
 
Membership
.—
The joint working group shall include equal representation from the Administration and the National Institutes of Health, and shall include representation from National Institutes of Health councils, as selected by the Director of the National Institutes of Health, and from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Advisory Council.


(c)
 
Annual Biomedical Research Symposia
.—
The joint working group shall organize annual symposia on biomedical research described in subsection (a) under the joint sponsorship of the Administration and the National Institutes of Health.


(d)
 
Annual Reporting Requirement
.—
The joint working group shall report annually to Congress on its progress in carrying out this section.


 Biomedical research grants
(a)
 
Establishment of Program
.—
The Administrator and the Director of the National Institutes of Health shall establish a joint program of biomedical research grants in areas described in 
section 40501(a) of this title
, where such research requires access to a microgravity environment. Such program shall be consistent with actions taken by the joint working group under 
section 40501 of this title
.


(b)
 
Research Opportunity Announcements
.—
The grants program established under subsection (a) shall annually issue joint research opportunity announcements under the sponsorship of the National Institutes of Health and the Administration. Responses to the announcements shall be evaluated by a peer review committee whose members shall be selected by the Director of the National Institutes of Health and the Administrator, and shall include individuals not employed by the Administration or the National Institutes of Health.


 Biomedical research fellowships
The Administrator and the Director of the National Institutes of Health shall create a joint program of graduate research fellowships in biomedical research described in 
 Establishment of electronic data archive
The Administrator shall create and maintain a national electronic data archive for biomedical research data obtained from space-based experiments.
 Establishment of emergency medical service telemedicine capability
The Administrator, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Director of the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, and the Surgeon General of the United States shall jointly create and maintain an international telemedicine satellite consultation capability to support emergency medical services in disaster-stricken areas.
