
Chapter 34
INLAND NAVIGATIONAL RULES
 Repealed. 
 Inland navigation rules
The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating may issue inland navigation regulations applicable to all vessels upon the inland waters of the United States and technical annexes that are as consistent as possible with the respective annexes to the International Regulations.
 Violations of Inland Navigational Rules
(a)
 Liability of operator for civil penalty
Whoever operates a vessel in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation issued thereunder, or in violation of a certificate of alternative compliance issued under Rule 1 is liable to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each violation.




(b)
 Liability of vessel for civil penalty; seizure of vessel
Every vessel subject to this chapter, other than a public vessel being used for noncommercial purposes, that is operated in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation issued thereunder, or in violation of a certificate of alternative compliance issued under Rule 1 is liable to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each violation, for which penalty the vessel may be seized and proceeded against in the district court of the United States of any district within which the vessel may be found.




(c)
 Assessment of civil penalty by Secretary; collection
The Secretary may assess any civil penalty authorized by this section. No such penalty may be assessed until the person charged, or the owner of the vessel charged, as appropriate, shall have been given notice of the violation involved and an opportunity for a hearing. For good cause shown, the Secretary may remit, mitigate, or compromise any penalty assessed. Upon the failure of the person charged, or the owner of the vessel charged, to pay an assessed penalty, as it may have been mitigated or compromised, the Secretary may request the Attorney General to commence an action in the appropriate district court of the United States for collection of the penalty as assessed, without regard to the amount involved, together with such other relief as may be appropriate.




(d)
 Withholding of clearance
(1)
 If any owner, operator, or individual in charge of a vessel is liable for a penalty under this section, or if reasonable cause exists to believe that the owner, operator, or individual in charge may be subject to a penalty under this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, upon the request of the Secretary, shall with respect to such vessel refuse or revoke any clearance required by 
section 60105 of title 46
.




(2)
 Clearance or a permit refused or revoked under this subsection may be granted upon filing of a bond or other surety satisfactory to the Secretary.




 Navigation Safety Advisory Council
(a)
 Establishment of Council
(1)
 In general
The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall establish a Navigation Safety Advisory Council (hereinafter referred to as the “Council”), consisting of not more than 21 members. All members shall have expertise in Inland and International vessel navigation Rules of the Road, aids to maritime navigation, maritime law, vessel safety, port safety, or commercial diving safety. Upon appointment, all non-Federal members shall be designated as representative members to represent the viewpoints and interests of one of the following groups or organizations:
(A)
 Commercial vessel owners or operators.




(B)
 Professional mariners.




(C)
 Recreational boaters.




(D)
 The recreational boating industry.




(E)
 State agencies responsible for vessel or port safety.




(F)
 The Maritime Law Association.






(2)
 Panels
Additional persons may be appointed to panels of the Council to assist the Council in performance of its functions.






(3)
 Nominations
The Secretary, through the Coast Guard Commandant, shall not less often than once a year publish a notice in the Federal Register soliciting nominations for membership on the Council.






(b)
 Functions
The Council shall advise, consult with, and make recommendations to the Secretary, through the Coast Guard Commandant, on matters relating to maritime collisions, rammings, groundings, Inland Rules of the Road, International Rules of the Road, navigation regulations and equipment, routing measures, marine information, diving safety, and aids to navigation systems. Any advice and recommendations made by the Council to the Secretary shall reflect the independent judgment of the Council on the matter concerned. The Council shall meet at the call of the Coast Guard Commandant, but in any event not less than twice during each calendar year. All proceedings of the Council shall be public, and a record of the proceedings shall be made available for public inspection.




(c)
 Executive secretary; staff; travel expenses and status of members
The Secretary shall furnish to the Council an executive secretary and such secretarial, clerical, and other services as are deemed necessary for the conduct of its business. Members of the Council, while away from their home or regular places of business, may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by 
section 5703 of title 5
. Payments under this section shall not render members of the Council officers or employees of the United States for any purpose.




(d)
 Termination of Council
Unless extended by subsequent Act of Congress, the Council shall terminate on 
September 30, 2020
.




