
Chapter 9
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
 Congressional Record: arrangement, style, contents, and indexes
The Joint Committee on Printing shall control the arrangement and style of the Congressional Record, and while providing that it shall be substantially a verbatim report of proceedings, shall take all needed action for the reduction of unnecessary bulk. It shall provide for the publication of an index of the Congressional Record semimonthly during and at the close of sessions of Congress.
 Congressional Record: Indexes
The Public Printer shall prepare the semimonthly and the session index to the Congressional Record. The Joint Committee on Printing shall direct the form and manner of its publication and distribution.
 Congressional Record: daily and permanent forms
The public proceedings of each House of Congress as reported by the Official Reporters, shall be printed in the Congressional Record, which shall be issued in daily form during each session and shall be revised, printed, and bound promptly, as directed by the Joint Committee on Printing, in permanent form, for distribution during and after the close of each session of Congress. The daily and the permanent Record shall bear the same date, which shall be that of the actual day’s proceedings reported. The “usual number” of the Congressional Record may not be printed.
 Congressional Record: maps; diagrams; illustrations
Maps, diagrams, or illustrations may not be inserted in the Record without the approval of the Joint Committee on Printing.
 Congressional Record: additional insertions
The Joint Committee on Printing shall provide for printing in the daily Record the legislative program for the day together with a list of congressional committee meetings and hearings, and the place of meeting and subject matter. It shall cause a brief resume of congressional activities for the previous day to be incorporated in the Record, together with an index of its contents prepared under the supervision of the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives, respectively.
 Congressional Record: gratuitous copies; delivery
The Public Printer shall furnish the Congressional Record only as follows:
 Congressional Record: extracts for Members of Congress; mailing envelopes
The Public Printer may print and deliver, upon the order of a Member of Congress and payment of the cost, extracts from the Congressional Record. The Public Printer may furnish without cost to Members and the Resident Commissioner, envelopes, ready for mailing the Congressional Record or any part of it, or speeches, or reports in it, if such part, speeches, or reports are mailable as franked mail under 
 Congressional Record: payment for printing extracts or other documents
If a Member or Resident Commissioner fails to pay the cost of printing extracts from the Congressional Record or other documents ordered by him to be printed, the Public Printer shall certify the amount due to the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives or the financial clerk of the Senate, as the case may be, who shall deduct from any salary due the delinquent the amount, or as much of it as the salary due may cover, and pay the amount so obtained to the Public Printer, to be applied by him to the satisfaction of the indebtedness.
 Congressional Record: exchange for Parliamentary Hansard
The Librarian of Congress may furnish a copy of the daily and bound Congressional Record to the Undersecretary of State for External Affairs of Canada in exchange for a copy of the Parliamentary Hansard, and the Public Printer shall honor the requisition of the Librarian of Congress for it. The Parliamentary Hansard so received shall be the property of the Department of State.
 Congressional Record: subscriptions; sale of current, individual numbers, and bound sets; postage rate
(a)
 Under the direction of the Joint Committee, the Public Printer may sell—
(1)
 subscriptions to the daily Record; and




(2)
 current, individual numbers, and bound sets of the Congressional Record.




(b)
 The price of a subscription to the daily Record and of current, individual numbers, and bound sets shall be determined by the Public Printer based upon the cost of printing and distribution. Any such price shall be paid in advance. The money from any such sale shall be paid into the Treasury and accounted for in the Public Printer’s annual report to Congress.


(c)
 The Congressional Record shall be entitled to be mailed at the same rates of postage at which any newspaper or other periodical publication, with a legitimate list of paid subscribers, is entitled to be mailed.


