
Chapter 13
PARTICULAR REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS
 Agriculture, Department of: report of Secretary
The annual report of the Secretary of Agriculture shall be submitted and printed in two parts, as follows:
 Agriculture, Department of: monthly crop report and other publications
The Secretary of Agriculture may cause to be printed the number of copies of the monthly crop report, and of other reports and bulletins of not more than one hundred octavo pages, he considers necessary.
 American Historical Association: report
In addition to the usual number of the report of the American Historical Association, five thousand five hundred copies shall be printed: one thousand for the Senate, two thousand for the House of Representatives, one thousand five hundred for distribution by the Association and the Smithsonian Institution, and one thousand copies for the use of the Association.
 Army and Navy registers
In addition to the usual number of the registers of the Army and Navy, fifteen hundred copies of each shall be printed: five hundred for the Senate, and one thousand for the House of Representatives.
 Attorney General: opinions
The Public Printer shall from time to time print an edition of one thousand copies of the opinions of the Attorney General, which shall be, as to size, quality of paper, printing, and binding, of uniform style and appearance, as nearly as practicable, with volume 8 of opinions, published in the year 1868. Each volume shall contain proper headnotes, a complete and full index, and such footnotes as the Attorney General approves. The volumes shall be distributed in the manner the Attorney General prescribes.
 Civil Service Commission: report
In addition to the usual number of the report of the Civil Service Commission twenty-three thousand copies shall be printed: one thousand for the Senate, two thousand for the House of Representatives, and twenty thousand for distribution by the Civil Service Commission.
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration: nautical products, sale and distribution
(a)
(1)
 All nautical products created or published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall be sold at such prices as the Secretary of Commerce shall establish annually, in accordance with the provisions of this subsection. The Secretary shall publish annually the prices at which nautical products are sold to the public.




(2)
(A)
 Subject to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, the prices of nautical products may be increased over a period of not less than three years after the date of enactment of this section so as to recover all costs attributable to data base management, compilation, printing, and distribution of such products. The prices of such products may be maintained to recover all such costs thereafter.




(B)
 The Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall adjust the prices of nautical products in such manner as is necessary to avoid any adverse impact on marine safety attributable to the prices specified in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.






(3)
 This section shall not be construed to require the establishment of any price for a nautical product where, in the judgment of the Secretary, furnishing of that product to a recipient is a reasonable exchange for voluntary contribution of information by the recipient to a program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.




(4)
 Prices established under this section may not include costs attributable to the acquisition or processing of nautical data.




(b)
 Fees collected from the sale of nautical products under this section and from any licensing of such products which is permitted under any other provision of law shall be deposited in the miscellaneous receipts fund of the United States Treasury.


(c)
 The Secretary may distribute nautical products—
(1)
 without charge to each foreign government or international organization with which the Secretary or a Federal department or agency has an agreement for exchange of these products without cost; and




(2)
 at prices which the Secretary establishes, to the departments and officers of the United States requiring them for official use.




(d)
 The fees provided for in this section are for the purpose of reimbursing the United States Government for the costs of creating, publishing or distributing nautical products of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The collection of fees authorized by this section shall not alter or expand any duty or liability of the United States under existing law for the performance of functions for which fees are collected, nor shall the collection of fees constitute an express or implied undertaking by the United States to perform any activity in a certain manner.


(e)
 For purposes of this section, the term “nautical products” includes all nautical charts, tide and tidal current tables, tidal current charts, coast pilots, water level products, and associated data bases which are created or published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.


 Coast Guard: annual report of the Commandant
The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may authorize the printing of the annual report of the Commandant of the Coast Guard in such editions as the interests of the Government and of the public require.
 Coast Guard: notices to mariners and other special publications
The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may authorize the printing of notices to mariners and other special publications of the Coast Guard in such editions as the interests of the Government and of the public require.
 Commerce Department: navigation and weather information
The Secretary of Commerce may cause to be printed the number of copies of tide tables, coast pilots, and other special publications relating to the Coast and Geodetic Survey, Weather Bureau maps, charts, bulletins of not more than one hundred octavo pages, and minor reports of the Weather Bureau, he considers for the best interest of the Government.
 Repealed. 
 Director of Public Health of District of Columbia: report
In addition to the usual number of the report of the Director of Public Health of the District of Columbia, one thousand five hundred copies shall be printed: one hundred for the Senate, three hundred and sixty for the House of Representatives, and one thousand and forty for the Director of Public Health.
 Education, Commissioner of: report
In addition to the usual number of the report of the Commissioner of Education, thirty-five thousand copies shall be printed: five thousand for the Senate, ten thousand for the House of Representatives, and twenty thousand for distribution by the Commissioner of Education.
 Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac
The “usual number” of copies of the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac may not be printed. Instead, there shall be printed and bound two thousand five hundred copies, uniform with the editions printed for the Department of the Navy, five hundred of which shall be for the use of the Senate, one thousand for the use of the House of Representatives, and one thousand for distribution or sale by the Department of the Navy. The Secretary of the Navy may cause to be published of the papers supplementary to the Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac, one thousand five hundred copies in addition to the usual number, one hundred copies for the Senate, four hundred for the House of Representatives, and one thousand for distribution or sale by the Department of the Navy. The Secretary of the Navy may cause additional copies of the Nautical Almanacs extracted from the Ephemeris, to be printed for the public service and for sale to navigators and others. Moneys received from sales of the Ephemeris and of the Nautical Almanacs shall be deposited in the Treasury and placed to the credit of the general fund for public printing.
 Fish and Wildlife Service: bulletins
In addition to the usual number of the bulletins of the Fish and Wildlife Service, five thousand copies shall be printed: one thousand for the Senate, two thousand for the House of Representatives, and two thousand for distribution by the Service.
 Fish and Wildlife Service: report of the Director
In addition to the usual number of the report of the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, eight thousand copies shall be printed: two thousand for the Senate, four thousand for the House of Representatives, and two thousand for distribution by the Service.
 Foreign Relations
In addition to the usual number of Foreign Relations, three thousand copies of each shall be printed: one thousand for the Senate and two thousand for the House of Representatives.
“(a)
 The Congress finds that the Department of State publication ‘Foreign Relations of the United States’ plays an important role in making the documentary record of United States foreign relations available to the Congress and the American public.


“(b)
 The Secretary of State shall therefore insure that publication of the ‘Foreign Relations of the United States’ volumes is continued in such a manner as will maintain the high standard of comprehensive documentation already established by past volumes.”


 Geological Survey: classes and sizes of publications; report of mineral resources; number of copies; reprints; distribution
The publications of the Geological Survey shall consist of the annual report of the Director, which shall be confined to one volume of royal octavo size; monographs, of quarto size; professional papers, of quarto size; bulletins, of ordinary octavo size; watersupply and irrigation papers, of ordinary octavo size; and maps, folios, and atlases required by law.
 Geological Survey: specific appropriations required for monographs and bulletins
The scientific reports known as the monographs and bulletins of the Geological Survey may not be published until specific and detailed estimates and specific appropriations based on these estimates are made for them. Engravings for the annual reports for monographs and bulletins, or of illustrations, sections, and maps, may not be made until specific estimates are submitted and specific appropriations made based on the estimates.
 Geological Survey: distribution of publications to public libraries
The Director of the Geological Survey shall distribute to public libraries that have not already received them, copies of sale publications on hand at the expiration of five years after date of delivery to the Survey document room, excepting a reserve number not to exceed two hundred copies.
 Historical societies’ publications
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and with the approval of the Joint Committee on Printing, the Public Printer shall provide for such printing services and distribution with respect to publications of the United States Capitol Historical Society, the Supreme Court Historical Society, or the White House Historical Association as such Society or Association may request: 
 Hydrographic Surveys; foreign surveys
Appropriations made for the preparation or publication of foreign hydrographic surveys may be applicable only upon approval by the Secretary of the Navy, after a report from three competent naval officers that the original data for proposed charts justify their publication. The Secretary of the Navy shall order a board of three naval officers to examine and report upon the data before he approves an application of moneys to the preparation or publication of charts or hydrographic surveys.
 Immigration and Naturalization Service: report
The number of copies, not to exceed five thousand, to be printed of the annual reports of the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the Department of Justice shall be subject to the discretion of the Attorney General.
 Interstate Commerce Commission: report
In addition to the usual number of the annual report of the Interstate Commerce Commission, three thousand copies shall be printed: one thousand for the Senate, two thousand for the House, and for the use of the Commission that number of the report and other documents incident to interstate commerce for distribution by it as it considers expedient.
 Labor Statistics, Bureau of: bulletins
There shall be printed one edition of fifteen thousand copies of each issue of the bulletin of the Bureau of Labor Statistics authorized by 
 Labor Statistics, Bureau of: report of Commissioner
In addition to the usual number of the report of the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, twenty-five thousand copies shall be printed: five thousand for the Senate, ten thousand for the House of Representatives, and ten thousand for distribution by the Commissioner.
 Librarian of Congress: reports
Five thousand copies of the annual and special reports of the Librarian of Congress submitted to Congress, shall be printed and bound in cloth for the Library of Congress.
 Mines, Bureau of: publications
The publications of the Bureau of Mines shall be published in editions recommended by the Secretary of the Interior, but not to exceed ten thousand copies for the first edition. When the edition of a publication of the Bureau of Mines is exhausted and the demand for it continues, there may be published, on the requisition of the Secretary of the Interior, as many additional copies as the Secretary of the Interior considers necessary to meet the demand.
 Merchant vessels of the United States
Five thousand copies of the annual list of merchant vessels of the United States may be printed for distribution by the Coast Guard.
 Mint: reports of Director
There may be printed, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, for distribution by the Treasury Department, two thousand copies of the annual report of the Director of the Mint on the operations of the mint and assay offices with appendices, and of the annual report of the Director of the Mint on the production of precious metals.
 Monthly Summary Statement of Imports and Exports
There shall be printed monthly by the Public Printer thirty-five hundred copies of the Monthly Summary Statement of Imports and Exports and other statistical information prepared by the Secretary of Commerce, five hundred for the Senate, one thousand for the House of Representatives, and two thousand for the Department of Commerce.
 National Academy of Sciences: report
In addition to the usual number of the report of the National Academy of Sciences, two thousand copies shall be printed: five hundred for the Senate, one thousand for the House of Representatives, and five hundred for distribution by the National Academy of Sciences.
 National encampments of Veterans’ organizations; proceedings printed annually for Congress
The proceedings of the national encampments of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, the American Legion, the Military Order of the Purple Heart, the Veterans of World War I of the United States of America, Incorporated, the Disabled American Veterans, and the AMVETS (American Veterans of World War II), respectively, shall be printed annually, with accompanying illustrations, as separate House documents of the session of the Congress to which they may be submitted.
 National high school and college debate topics
(a)
 The Librarian of Congress shall prepare compilations of pertinent excerpts, bibliographical references, and other appropriate materials relating to:
(1)
 the subject selected annually by the National University Extension Association as the national high school debate topic and




(2)
 the subject selected annually by the American Speech Association as the national college debate topic.





In preparing the compilations the Librarian shall include materials which in his judgment are representative of, and give equal emphasis to, the opposing points of view on the respective topics.


(b)
 The compilations on the high school debate topics shall be printed as Senate documents and the compilations on the college debate topics shall be printed as House of Representatives documents, the cost of which shall be charged to the congressional allotment for printing and binding. Additional copies may be printed in the quantities and distributed in the manner the Joint Committee on Printing directs.


 Naval Intelligence Office: additional copies of publications
In addition to one thousand copies previously authorized, the Secretary of the Navy may print extra copies of the publications of the Office of Naval Intelligence necessary for distribution to the naval service and to meet other official demands. The edition of any one publication may not exceed two thousand copies.
 Naval Observatory Observations
In addition to the usual number of the Observations of the Naval Observatory, one thousand eight hundred copies shall be printed: three hundred for the Senate, seven hundred for the House of Representatives, and eight hundred for distribution by the Naval Observatory; and of the astronomical appendixes to the Observations, one thousand two hundred separate copies, and of the meteorological and magnetic observations one thousand separate copies, for distribution by the Naval Observatory.
 National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency: special publications
The Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency may authorize the printing of notices to mariners, light lists, sailing directions, bulletins, and other special publications of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency in editions the interests of the Government and of the public may require.
 Repealed. 
 Printing of the President’s Message
The message of the President without the accompanying documents and reports shall be printed in pamphlet form, immediately upon its receipt by Congress. In addition to the usual number, fifteen thousand copies shall be printed, of which five thousand shall be for the Senate, and ten thousand for the House of Representatives.
 Public Printer: annual report
In addition to the usual number of the annual report of the Public Printer, one thousand copies shall be printed to be distributed under his direction.
 Smithsonian Institution: report
In addition to the usual number of the report of the Smithsonian Institution ten thousand copies shall be printed: one thousand for the Senate, two thousand for the House of Representatives, five thousand for distribution by the Smithsonian Institution, and two thousand for distribution by the National Museum.
 Repealed. 
 Statistical Abstract of the United States
In addition to the usual number of the Statistical Abstract of the United States, twelve thousand copies shall be printed: three thousand for the Senate, six thousand for the House of Representatives, and three thousand for distribution by the Secretary of Commerce.
 Treasury Department: reports
In addition to the usual number of the finance report of the Secretary of the Treasury, one thousand copies for the Senate and two thousand for the House of Representatives shall be printed in addition to those published as part of the departmental report.
