
Chapter 5
PRODUCTION AND PROCUREMENT OF PRINTING AND BINDING
 Government printing, binding, and blank-book work to be done at Government Printing Office
 Procurement of printing, binding, and blank-book work by Public Printer
Printing, binding, and blank-book work authorized by law, which the Public Printer is not able or equipped to do at the Government Printing Office, may be produced elsewhere under contracts made by him with the approval of the Joint Committee on Printing.
“(a)
 
Test Program
.—
The Public Printer shall establish and carry out a test program for increasing its award of contracts to small and disadvantaged businesses for the printing, binding, and related services needed by the Department of Defense. The program shall have a goal of procuring in each such fiscal year from such businesses printing, binding, and related services equivalent to not more than 5 percent of the value of the printing, binding, and related services which were procured in the preceding fiscal year by the Government Printing Office from non-Government sources for the Department of Defense. The Public Printer may use such procurement procedures as he considers necessary to facilitate achievement of such goal.


“(b)
 
Covered Entities
.—
In this section, the term ‘small and disadvantaged businesses’ means the small business concerns, historically Black colleges and universities, and minority institutions described in 
section 2323(a) of title 10
, United States Code.


“(c)
 
Enforcement
.—
Any person who, for the purpose of securing a contract under subsection (a), misrepresents the status of any concern or person as a small business concern referred to in subsection (b), is subject to the penalties set forth in 
section 2323(f) of title 10
, United States Code.


“(d)
 
Department of Defense Goals
.—
For the purpose of determining whether the Department of Defense has attained the goals set forth in 
section 2323 of title 10
, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may count any procurements by the Public Printer in the program established under subsection (a).


“(e)
 
Duration of Test
.—
The test program established by subsection (a) shall not apply to solicitations issued on or after 
October 1, 2000
.”


 Printing in veterans’ hospitals
(a)
 Notwithstanding 
section 501 of this title
, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may use the equipment described in subsection (b) for printing and binding that the Secretary finds advisable for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs.


(b)
 The equipment referred to in subsection (a) is the printing and binding equipment that the various hospitals and homes of the Department of Veterans Affairs use for occupational therapy.


 Direct purchase of printing, binding, and blank-book work by Government agencies
The Joint Committee on Printing may permit the Public Printer to authorize an executive department, independent office, or establishment of the Government to purchase direct for its use such printing, binding, and blank-book work, otherwise authorized by law, as the Government Printing Office is not able or suitably equipped to execute or as may be more economically or in the better interest of the Government executed elsewhere.
 Sale of duplicate plates
The Public Printer shall sell, under regulations of the Joint Committee on Printing to persons who may apply, additional or duplicate stereotype or electrotype plates from which a Government publication is printed, at a price not to exceed the cost of composition, the metal, and making to the Government, plus 10 per centum, and the full amount of the price shall be paid when the order is filed.
 Time for printing documents or reports which include illustrations or maps
A document or report to be illustrated or accompanied by maps may not be printed by the Public Printer until the illustrations or maps designed for it are ready for publication.
 Orders for printing to be acted upon within one year
An order for public printing may not be acted upon by the Public Printer after the expiration of one year unless the entire copy and illustrations for the work have been furnished within that period.
 Annual estimates of quantity of paper required for public printing and binding
At the beginning of each session of Congress, the Public Printer shall submit to the Joint Committee on Printing estimates of the quantity of paper of all descriptions required for the public printing and binding during the ensuing year.
 Standards of paper; advertisements for proposals; samples
The Joint Committee on Printing shall fix upon standards of paper for the different descriptions of public printing and binding, and the Public Printer, under their direction, shall advertise in six newspapers or trade journals, published in different cities, for sealed proposals to furnish the Government with paper, as specified in the schedule to be furnished applicants by the Public Printer, setting forth in detail the quality and quantities required for the public printing. The Public Printer shall furnish samples of the standard of papers fixed upon to applicants who desire to bid.
 Specifications in advertisements for paper
The advertisements for proposals shall specify the minimum portion of each quality of paper required for either three months, six months, or one year, as the Joint Committee on Printing determines; but when the minimum portion so specified exceeds, in any case, one thousand reams, it shall state that proposals will be received for one thousand reams or more.
 Opening bids; bonds
The sealed proposals to furnish paper and envelopes shall be opened in the presence of the Joint Committee on Printing who shall award the contracts to the lowest and best bidder for the interest of the Government. The committee 
 Approval of paper contracts; time for performance; bonds
A contract for furnishing paper is not valid until approved by the Joint Committee on Printing. The award of a contract for furnishing paper shall designate a reasonable time for its performance. The contractor shall give bond in an amount fixed and approved by the Committee.
 Comparison of paper and envelopes with standard quality
The Public Printer shall compare every lot of paper and envelopes delivered by a contractor with the standard of quality fixed upon by the Joint Committee on Printing, and may not accept paper or envelopes which do not conform to it in every particular. A lot of delivered paper or envelopes which does not conform to the standard of quality may be accepted by the Committee at a discount that in its opinion is sufficient to protect the interests of the Government.
 Determination of quality of paper
The Joint Committee on Printing shall determine differences of opinion between the Public Printer and a contractor for paper respecting the paper’s quality; and the decision of the Committee is final as to the United States.
 Default of contractor; new contracts and purchase in open market
If a contractor fails to comply with his contract, the Public Printer shall report the default to the Joint Committee on Printing, and under its direction, enter into a new contract with the lowest, best, and most responsible bidder for the interest of the Government among those whose proposals were rejected at the last opening of bids, or he shall advertise for new proposals, under the regulations provided by sections 509–517 of this title. During the interval that may thus occur he may, under the direction of the Joint Committee on Printing, purchase in open market, at the lowest market price, paper necessary for the public printing.
 Liability of defaulting contractor
Upon failure to furnish paper, a contractor and his sureties shall be responsible for any increase of cost to the Government in procuring a supply of the paper consequent upon his default. The Public Printer shall report every default, with a full statement of all the facts in the case, to the General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury, who shall prosecute the defaulting contractor and his sureties upon their bond in the district court of the United States in the district in which the defaulting contractor resides.
 Purchase of paper in open market
The Joint Committee on Printing may authorize the Public Printer to purchase paper in open market when they consider the quantity required so small or the want so immediate as not to justify advertisement for proposals.
