
Chapter 39
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
 Purpose and establishment of the Office of Inspector General
“(a)
 
In General
.—
There is transferred to the Office of Inspector General established pursuant to this title [enacting this chapter and provisions set out as notes under sections 101 and 3901 of this title], the office of the Government Printing Office referred to as the ‘Office of Inspector General’.


“(b)
 
Related Provisions
.—
With respect to such transferred office—
“(1)
 sections 9(b) and (c) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 [section 9(b), (c) of 
Pub. L. 95–452
, 5 U.S.C. App.] shall apply; and




“(2)
 all the functions, powers, and duties of the office transferred by subsection (a) shall lapse.




“(c)
 
Personnel
.—
Any person who, on the effective date of this title [see Effective Date note above], held a position compensated in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations that govern selections, appointments, and employment within the Government Printing Office, and who, without a break in service, is appointed in the Office of Inspector General established by this title to a position having duties comparable to those performed immediately preceding such appointment shall continue to be compensated in the new position at not less than the rate provided for the previous position, for the duration of service in the new position.”


 Appointment of Inspector General; supervision; removal
(a)
 There shall be at the head of the Office of Inspector General, an Inspector General who shall be appointed by the Public Printer without regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public administration, or investigations. The Inspector General shall report to, and be under the general supervision of, the Public Printer. The Public Printer shall have no authority to prevent or prohibit the Inspector General from initiating, carrying out, or completing any audit or investigation, or from issuing any subpena during the course of any audit or investigation.


(b)
 The Inspector General may be removed from office by the Public Printer. The Public Printer shall, promptly upon such removal, communicate in writing the reasons for any such removal to each House of the Congress.


 Duties, responsibilities, authority, and reports
(a)
 Sections 4, 5, 6 (other than subsection (a)(7) and (8) thereof), and 7 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (
Public Law 95–452
; 5 U.S.C. App. 3) shall apply to the Inspector General of the Government Printing Office and the Office of such Inspector General and such sections shall be applied to the Government Printing Office and the Public Printer by substituting—
(1)
 “Government Printing Office” for “establishment”; and




(2)
 “Public Printer” for “head of the establishment”.




(b)
 The Inspector General, in carrying out the provisions of this chapter, is authorized to select, appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of Inspector General subject to the provisions of this title governing selections, appointments, and employment in the Government Printing Office (and any regulations thereunder).


