
Chapter 17
DISTRIBUTION AND SALE OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS
 Publications for public distribution to be distributed by the Public Printer; mailing lists
Money appropriated by any Act may not be used for services in an executive department or other Government establishment at the District of Columbia, in the work of addressing, wrapping, mailing, or otherwise dispatching a publication for public distribution, except maps, weather reports, and weather cards issued by them or for the purchase of material or supplies to be used in this work. The Public Printer shall perform this work at the Government Printing Office. The head of an executive department, independent office, and establishment of the Government at the District of Columbia, shall furnish from time to time to the Public Printer mailing lists, in convenient form, and changes in them, or penalty mail slips, for use in the public distribution of publications issued by the department or establishment. The Public Printer may furnish copies of a publication only in accordance with law or the instruction of the head of the department or establishment issuing the publication.
 Superintendent of Documents; sale of documents
The Public Printer shall appoint a competent person to act as Superintendent of Documents who shall be under the control of the Public Printer.
 Superintendent of Documents: assistants, blanks, printing and binding
The Public Printer, upon the requisition of the Superintendent of Documents, shall appoint necessary assistants, furnish blanks, and do the printing and binding required by his office. The Public Printer shall provide convenient office, storage, and distributing rooms for the use of the Superintendent of Documents.
 Superintendent of Documents: pay of employees for night, Sunday, holiday, and overtime work
Employees in the office of the Superintendent of Documents may be paid for night, Sunday, holiday, and overtime work at rates not in excess of the rates of additional pay for this work allowed other employees of the Government Printing Office under 
 Printing additional copies for sale to public; regulations
The Public Printer shall print additional copies of a Government publication, not confidential in character, required for sale to the public by the Superintendent of Documents, subject to regulation by the Joint Committee on Printing and without interference with the prompt execution of printing for the Government.
 Printing and sale of extra copies of documents
The Public Printer shall furnish to applicants giving notice before the matter is put to press, not exceeding two hundred and fifty to any one applicant, copies of bills, reports, and documents. The applicants shall pay in advance the price of the printing. The printing of these copies for private parties may not interfere with the printing for the Government.
 Reprinting of documents required for sale
The Superintendent of Documents may order reprinted, from time to time, public documents required for sale, subject to the approval of the Secretary or head of the department in which the public document originated. The Revolving Fund shall be reimbursed for the cost of reprints from the moneys received by the Superintendent of Documents from the sale of public documents.
 Prices for sales copies of publications; crediting of receipts; resale by dealers; sales agents
The price at which additional copies of Government publications are offered for sale to the public by the Superintendent of Documents shall be based on the cost as determined by the Public Printer plus 50 percent. A discount may be allowed as determined by the Superintendent of Documents, but the printing may not interfere with prompt execution of work for the Government.
 Blank forms: printing and sale to public
The Public Printer may print for sale by the Superintendent of Documents to the public, upon prepayment, additional copies of approved Government blank forms.
 Index of documents: number and distribution
The Superintendent of Documents, at the close of each regular session of Congress, shall prepare and publish a comprehensive index of public documents, upon a plan approved by the Joint Committee on Printing. The Public Printer shall, immediately upon its publication, deliver to him a copy of every document printed by the Government Printing Office. The head of each executive department, independent agency and establishment of the Government shall deliver to him a copy of every document issued or published by the department, bureau, or office not confidential in character. He shall also prepare and print in one volume a consolidated index of Congressional documents, and shall index single volumes of documents as the Joint Committee on Printing directs. Two thousand copies each of the comprehensive index and of the consolidated index shall be printed and bound in addition to the usual number, two hundred for the Senate, eight hundred for the House of Representatives and one thousand for distribution by the Superintendent of Documents.
 Catalog of Government publications
On the first day of each month the Superintendent of Documents shall prepare a catalog of Government publications which shall show the documents printed during the preceding month, where obtainable, and the price. Two thousand copies of the catalog shall be printed in pamphlet form for distribution.
 Documents for use of the Public Printer
The Public Printer may retain out of all documents, bills, and resolutions printed the number of copies absolutely needful for the official use of the Government Printing Office, not exceeding five of each.
 Documents to be delivered to the Executive Mansion
The Public Printer shall deliver to the Executive Mansion two copies of each document, bill, and resolution as soon as printed and ready for distribution.
 Publications for use of National Archives and Records Administration
The Public Printer shall print and deliver to the National Archives and Records Administration for use by the Archivist of the United States, including use by the Presidential Library established for the President during whose term the documents were issued, which shall be chargeable to Congress three copies each of the following publications:
 Publications for department or officer or for congressional committees
When printing not bearing a congressional number, except confidential matter, blank forms, and circular letters not of a public character, is done for a department or officer of the Government, or not of a confidential character, is done for use of congressional committees, two copies shall be sent, unless withheld by order of the committee, by the Public Printer to the Senate and House of Representatives libraries, respectively, and one copy each to the document rooms of the Senate and House of Representatives, for reference; and these copies may not be removed.
 Public documents for legations and consulates of United States
Only books published by the Government, and usually known by the name of “Public Documents,” may be supplied to a legation or consulate of the United States as are first designated by the Secretary of State, by an order to be recorded in the State Department, as suitable for and required by the legation and consulate.
 Documents and reports for foreign legations
Documents and reports may be furnished to foreign legations to the United States upon request stating those desired and requisition upon the Public Printer by the Secretary of State. Gratuitous distribution may only be made to legations whose Governments furnish to legations from the United States copies of their printed and legislative documents desired.
 Distribution of Government publications to the Library of Congress
There shall be printed and furnished to the Library of Congress for official use in the District of Columbia not to exceed twenty-five copies of:
 International exchange of Government publications
For the purpose of more fully carrying into effect the convention concluded at Brussels on 
 Documents not needed by departments to be turned over to Superintendent of Documents
Public documents accumulating in the several executive departments, bureaus, and offices, not needed for official use, shall be turned over to the Superintendent of Documents annually for distribution or sale.
 Exchange of documents by heads of departments
Heads of departments may exchange surplus documents for other documents and books required by them, when it is to the advantage of the public service.
 Departmental distribution of publications
Government publications printed for or received by the executive departments, whether for official use or for distribution, except those required by 
