
Chapter 15
FEDERAL REGISTER AND CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
 Definitions
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires—
 Custody and printing of Federal documents; appointment of Director
The Archivist of the United States, acting through the Office of the Federal Register, is charged with the custody and, together with the Public Printer, with the prompt and uniform printing and distribution of the documents required or authorized to be published by 
 Filing documents with Office; notation of time; public inspection; transmission for printing
The original and two duplicate originals or certified copies of a document required or authorized to be published by 
 “Federal Register”; printing; contents; distribution; price
Documents required or authorized to be published by 
 Documents to be published in Federal Register
(a)
 
Proclamations and Executive Orders; Documents Having General Applicability and Legal Effect; Documents Required To Be Published by Congress
.
 There shall be published in the Federal Register—
(1)
 Presidential proclamations and Executive orders, except those not having general applicability and legal effect or effective only against Federal agencies or persons in their capacity as officers, agents, or employees thereof;




(2)
 documents or classes of documents that the President may determine from time to time have general applicability and legal effect; and




(3)
 documents or classes of documents that may be required so to be published by Act of Congress.





For the purposes of this chapter every document or order which prescribes a penalty has general applicability and legal effect.


(b)
 
Documents Authorized To Be Published by Regulations; Comments and News Items Excluded
.
 In addition to the foregoing there shall also be published in the Federal Register other documents or classes of documents authorized to be published by regulations prescribed under this chapter with the approval of the President, but comments or news items of any character may not be published in the Federal Register.


(c)
 
Suspension of Requirements for Filing of Documents; Alternate Systems for Promulgating, Filing, or Publishing Documents; Preservation of Originals
.
 In the event of an attack or threatened attack upon the continental United States and a determination by the President that as a result of an attack or threatened attack—
(1)
 publication of the Federal Register or filing of documents with the Office of the Federal Register is impracticable, or




(2)
 under existing conditions publication in the Federal Register would not serve to give appropriate notice to the public of the contents of documents, the President may, without regard to any other provision of law, suspend all or part of the requirements of law or regulation for filing with the Office or publication in the Federal Register of documents or classes of documents.





The suspensions shall remain in effect until revoked by the President, or by concurrent resolution of the Congress. The President shall establish alternate systems for promulgating, filing, or publishing documents or classes of documents affected by such suspensions, including requirements relating to their effectiveness or validity, that may be considered under the then existing circumstances practicable to provide public notice of the issuance and of the contents of the documents. The alternate systems may, without limitation, provide for the use of regional or specialized publications or depositories for documents, or of the press, the radio, or similar mediums of general communication. Compliance with alternate systems of filing or publication shall have the same effect as filing with the Office or publication in the Federal Register under this chapter or other law or regulation. With respect to documents promulgated under alternate systems, each agency shall preserve the original and two duplicate originals or two certified copies for filing with the Office when the President determines that it is practicable.


 Administrative Committee of the Federal Register; establishment and composition; powers and duties
 Filing document as constructive notice; publication in Federal Register as presumption of validity; judicial notice; citation
 Publication in Federal Register as notice of hearing
 Costs of publication, etc.
(a)
 The cost of printing, reprinting, wrapping, binding, and distributing the Federal Register and the Code of Federal Regulations, and, except as provided in subsection (b), other expenses incurred by the Government Printing Office in carrying out the duties placed upon it by this chapter shall be charged to the revolving fund provided in section 309. Reimbursements for such costs and expenses shall be made by the Federal agencies and credited, together with all receipts, as provided in section 309(b).


(b)
 The cost of printing, reprinting, wrapping, binding, and distributing all other publications of the Federal Register program, and other expenses incurred by the Government Printing Office in connection with such publications, shall be borne by the appropriations to the Government Printing Office and the appropriations are made available, and are authorized to be increased by additional sums necessary for the purposes, the increases to be based upon estimates submitted by the Public Printer.


 Code of Federal Regulations
(a)
 The Administrative Committee of the Federal Register, with the approval of the President, may require, from time to time as it considers necessary, the preparation and publication in special or supplemental editions of the Federal Register of complete codifications of the documents of each agency of the Government having general applicability and legal effect, issued or promulgated by the agency by publication in the Federal Register or by filing with the Administrative Committee, and are relied upon by the agency as authority for, or are invoked or used by it in the discharge of, its activities or functions, and are in effect as to facts arising on or after dates specified by the Administrative Committee.


(b)
 A codification published under subsection (a) of this section shall be printed and bound in permanent form and shall be designated as the “Code of Federal Regulations.” The Administrative Committee shall regulate the binding of the printed codifications into separate books with a view to practical usefulness and economical manufacture. Each book shall contain an explanation of its coverage and other aids to users that the Administrative Committee may require. A general index to the entire Code of Federal Regulations shall be separately printed and bound.


(c)
 The Administrative Committee shall regulate the supplementation and the collation and republication of the printed codifications with a view to keeping the Code of Federal Regulations as current as practicable. Each book shall be either supplemented or collated and republished at least once each calendar year.


(d)
 The Office of the Federal Register shall prepare and publish the codifications, supplements, collations, and indexes authorized by this section.


(e)
 The codified documents of the several agencies published in the supplemental edition of the Federal Register under this section, as amended by documents subsequently filed with the Office and published in the daily issues of the Federal Register shall be prima facie evidence of the text of the documents and of the fact that they are in effect on and after the date of publication.


(f)
 The Administrative Committee shall prescribe, with the approval of the President, regulations for carrying out this section.


(g)
 This section does not require codification of the text of Presidential documents published and periodically compiled in supplements to Title 3 of the Code of Federal Regulations.


 International agreements excluded from provisions of chapter
This chapter does not apply to treaties, conventions, protocols, and other international agreements, or proclamations thereof by the President.
