
Chapter 107
CONSUMER-PATIENT RADIATION HEALTH AND SAFETY
 Statement of findings
 Statement of purpose
 Definitions
 Promulgation of standards
(a)
 Within twelve months after 
August 13, 1981
, the Secretary, in consultation with the Radiation Policy Council, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, appropriate agencies of the States, and appropriate professional organizations, shall by regulation promulgate minimum standards for the accreditation of educational programs to train individuals to perform radiologic procedures. Such standards shall distinguish between programs for the education of (1) medical radiologic technologists (including radiographers), (2) dental auxiliaries (including dental hygienists and assistants), (3) radiation therapy technologists, (4) nuclear medicine technologists, and (5) such other kinds of health auxiliaries who administer radiologic procedures as the Secretary determines appropriate. Such standards shall not be applicable to educational programs for practitioners.


(b)
 Within twelve months after 
August 13, 1981
, the Secretary, in consultation with the Radiation Policy Council, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, interested agencies of the States, and appropriate professional organizations, shall by regulation promulgate minimum standards for the certification of persons who administer radiologic procedures. Such standards shall distinguish between certification of (1) medical radiologic technologists (including radiographers), (2) dental auxiliaries (including dental hygienists and assistants), (3) radiation therapy technologists, (4) nuclear medicine technologists, and (5) such other kinds of health auxiliaries who administer radiologic procedures as the Secretary determines appropriate. Such standards shall include minimum certification criteria for individuals with regard to accredited education, practical experience, successful passage of required examinations, and such other criteria as the Secretary shall deem necessary for the adequate qualification of individuals to administer radiologic procedures. Such standards shall not apply to practitioners.


 Model statute
 Compliance
(a)
 Implementation by Secretary
The Secretary shall take all actions consistent with law to effectuate the purposes of this chapter.




(b)
 Accreditation or certification program
A State may utilize an accreditation or certification program administered by a private entity if—
(1)
 such State delegates the administration of the State accreditation or certification program to such private entity;




(2)
 such program is approved by the State; and




(3)
 such program is consistent with the minimum Federal standards promulgated under this chapter for such program.




(c)
 Noncompliance; proposed legislative changes
Absent compliance by the States with the provisions of this chapter within three years after 
August 13, 1981
, the Secretary shall report to the Congress recommendations for legislative changes considered necessary to assure the States’ compliance with this chapter.




(d)
 Repealed. 
Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1061(b)
, 
Dec. 21, 1995
, 
109 Stat. 719


(e)
 Existing standards and guidelines
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in the case of a State which has, prior to the effective date of standards and guidelines promulgated pursuant to this chapter, established standards for the accreditation of educational programs and certification of radiologic technologists, such State shall be deemed to be in compliance with the conditions of this section unless the Secretary determines, after notice and hearing, that such State standards do not meet the minimum standards prescribed by the Secretary or are inconsistent with the purposes of this chapter.




 Federal radiation guidelines
 Applicability to Federal agencies
(a)
 Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, each department, agency, and instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government shall comply with standards promulgated pursuant to this chapter.


(b)
 The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, through the Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, shall, to the maximum extent feasible consistent with the responsibilities of such Secretary and Under Secretary for Health under title 38, prescribe regulations making the standards promulgated pursuant to this chapter applicable to the provision of radiologic procedures in facilities over which that Secretary has jurisdiction. In prescribing and implementing regulations pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall consult with the Secretary in order to achieve the maximum possible coordination of the regulations, standards, and guidelines, and the implementation thereof, which the Secretary and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs prescribe under this chapter.


