
Chapter 215
AMERICAN HOSPITAL OF PARIS
 Organization
(a)
 
Federal Charter
.—
American Hospital of Paris (in this chapter, the “corporation”) is a federally chartered corporation.


(b)
 
Place of Incorporation
.—
The corporation is declared to be incorporated in the District of Columbia.


(c)
 
Perpetual Existence
.—
Except as otherwise provided, the corporation has perpetual existence.


 Purpose
The purpose of the corporation is to maintain a hospital in the vicinity of Paris, France, to provide medical and surgical care to citizens of the United States.
 Governing body
(a)
 
General
.—
(1)
 The board of governors is the governing body of the corporation.




(2)
 The board shall have at least 12 governors, divided into 3 classes of equal numbers. One class of governors shall be elected each year for a term of 3 years or until their successors are elected. The corporation shall elect the governors at its annual meeting.




(b)
 
Quorum
.—
Five governors are a quorum for the transaction of business, except that a majority vote of the board is required for—
(1)
 the sale or alienation of any real or personal estate of the corporation; or




(2)
 the leasing of real estate of the corporation for a term of more than one year.




(c)
 
Powers
.—
The board may—
(1)
 adopt and amend bylaws, as may be necessary and proper, related to—
(A)
 elections and meetings;




(B)
 qualifications and duties of governors and officers;




(C)
 admission and qualifications of members; and




(D)
 management and disposition of the property, business, and concerns of the corporation;






(2)
 conduct all business of the corporation;




(3)
 fill, until the next annual election, a vacancy on the board; and




(4)
 appoint attending and resident physicians and surgeons, agents, assistants, and attendants as may be necessary, set their compensation, and discharge them.




 Acquisition and management of property
The corporation may acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property, in the United States and France, to carry out the purposes of the corporation.
 Charges for medical services
The corporation may charge a reasonable compensation for providing medical and surgical services or may provide those services without charge. Amounts received under this section shall be used to carry out the purposes of the corporation.
 Principal office
The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of Columbia. However, offices may be maintained and meetings of the board of governors and committees may be held elsewhere.
 Nonapplication of audit requirements
The audit requirements of 
