
Chapter 63
EISENHOWER EXCHANGE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
 Purposes
 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund
(a)
 Establishment
There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the “fund”). The fund shall consist of amounts authorized to be appropriated under 
section 5204 of this title
.




(b)
 Investment in interest-bearing obligations
It shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to invest in full amounts appropriated to the fund. Such investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interests 
1
1
 So in original. Probably should be “interest”.
 by the United States. For such purpose, such obligations may be acquired (1) on original issue at the issue price, or (2) by purchase of outstanding obligations at the market price. The purposes for which obligations of the United States may be issued under chapter 31 of title 31, are hereby extended to authorize the issuance at par of special obligations exclusively to the fund. Such special obligations shall bear interest at a rate equal to the average rate of interest, computed as to the end of the calendar month next preceding the date of such issue borne by all marketable interest-bearing obligations of the United States then forming a part of the public debt; except that where such average rate is not a multiple of one-eighth of 1 percent, the rate of interest of such special obligations shall be the multiple of one-eighth of 1 percent next lower than such average rate. Such special obligations shall be issued only if the Secretary determines that the purchase of other interest-bearing obligations of the United States, or of obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by the United States or original issue or at the market price, is not in the public interest.




(c)
 Sale and redemption of obligations
Any obligation acquired by the fund (except special obligations issued exclusively to the fund) may be sold by the Secretary of the Treasury at the market price, and such special obligations may be redeemed at par plus accrued interest.




(d)
 Credit to fund of interest and proceeds of sale or redemption
The interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any obligations held in the fund shall be credited to and form a part of the fund.




 Expenditure and audit of trust fund
(a)
 Authorization of funding
For each fiscal year, there is authorized to be appropriated from the fund to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, the interest and earnings of the fund.




(b)
 Access to books, records, etc., by Government Accountability Office
The activities of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, may be audited by the Government Accountability Office under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States. The representatives of the Government Accountability Office shall have access to all books, accounts, records, reports, and files and all other papers, things, or property belonging to or in use by Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, pertaining to such activities and necessary to facilitate the audit.




 Authorization of appropriations
 Use of income on endowment
(a)
, (b) Repealed. 
Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101
[(a)] [title IV, § 407], 
Apr. 26, 1996
, 
110 Stat. 1321
, 1321–45; renumbered title I, 
Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a)
, 
May 2, 1996
, 
110 Stat. 1327


(c)
 Agricultural exchange program
For any fiscal year, as may be determined by Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, a portion of the amounts made available to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, pursuant to 
section 5203(a) of this title
 shall be used to provide fellowships for agricultural exchange programs for farmers from the United States and foreign countries.




(d)
 Participation by United States minority populations
In order to ensure that the United States fellows participating in programs of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, are representative of the cultural, ethnic, and racial diversity of the American people, of the amounts made available to Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, pursuant to 
section 5203(a) of this title
 which are obligated and expended for United States fellowship programs, not less than 10 percent shall be available only for participation by individuals who are representative of United States minority populations.




 Report to Congress
For any fiscal year for which Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated, receive funds pursuant to 
 Status as executive agency
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on and after 
